But the duke kind of soured on him, and didn't look a bit satisfied with the way things was going; still, the king acted real friendly towards him, and said the duke's great grandfather and all the other Dukes of Bilgewater was a good deal thought of by his father, and was allowed to come to the palace considerable; but the duke stayed huffy a good while, till by and by the king says: Like as not we got to be together a blamed long time on this h yer raft, Bilgewater, and so what's the use
So we set in, like we done before with the duke, and tried to comfort him.
Well, the duke allowed he would take my bed; but the king allowed he wouldn't.
So the duke and the king went to overhauling our wigwam, to see what the beds was like.
so we was pretty glad when the duke says: 'Tis my fate to be always ground into the mire under the iron heel of oppression.
No, says the king.
The king was satisfied; so the duke got out his book and read the parts over in the most splendid spread eagle way, prancing around and acting at the same time, to show how it had got to be done; then he give the book to the king and told him to get his part by heart.
So me and the king lit out for the camp meeting.
I crawled into the wigwam, but the king and the duke had their legs sprawled around
When we was three quarters of a mile below we hoisted up our signal lantern; and about ten o'clock it come on to rain and blow and thunder and lighten like everything; so the king told us to both stay on watch till the weather got better; then him and the duke crawled into the wigwam and turned in for the night.
And we had to make up the pictures of coffins and things, and nonnamous letters from the robbers, and get up and down the lightning rod, and dig the hole into the cabin, and made the rope ladder and send it in cooked up in a pie, and send in spoons and things to work with in your apron pocket  Mercy sakes!  and load up the cabin with rats and snakes and so on, for company for Jim; and then you kept Tom here so long with the butter in his hat that you come near spiling the whole business, because the men come before we was out of the cabin, and we had to rush, and they heard us and let drive at us, and I got my share, and we dodged out of the path and let them go by, and when the dogs come they warn't interested in us, but went for the most noise, and we got our canoe, and made for the raft, and was all safe, and Jim was a free man, and we done it all by ourselves, and wasn't it bully, Aunty!
Well, I've counted them twice, Aunty, and I can't make but nine.
Why, Aunty, it cost us a power of work weeks of it hours and hours, every night, whilst you was all asleep.
Why, Aunty, I don't think there's ten.
Did you tell Aunty?
Well, he run on, and on, and on, making up stuff about Hicksville and everybody in it he could invent, and I getting a little nervious, and wondering how this was going to help me out of my scrape; and at last, still talking along, he reached over and kissed Aunt Sally right on the mouth, and then settled back again in his chair comfortable, and was going on talking; but she jumped up and wiped it off with the back of her hand, and says: You owdacious puppy!
she  Don't say yes'm say Aunt Sally
Oh, do, says Aunt Sally; it ain't a bit of trouble to us, not a bit in the world.
In about half an hour Tom's wagon drove up to the front stile, and Aunt Sally she see it through the window, because it was only about fifty yards, and says:
, I didn't see nobody, Aunt Sally.