Anne Shirley, faltered the shrinking child, not daring to make any stipulations regarding the spelling thereof, and Im eleven years old.
Yes, this is Anne Shirley, said Marilla.
Anne Shirley! said Marilla rebukingly.
Anne Shirley, reluctantly faltered forth the owner of that name, but, oh, please do call me Cordelia.
I remain,  Yours respectfully,  Anne Shirley.
Anne is a real good plain sensible name.
If youll only call me Anne spelled with an E
Oh, Im not ashamed of it, explained Anne,
But if you call me Anne please call me Anne spelled with an E.
Very well, then, Anne spelled with an E, can you tell us how this mistake came to be made?
Gilbert Blythe sitting right across the aisle from you, Anne.
I think your Gilbert Blythe is handsome, confided Anne to Diana, but I think hes very bold.
I guess Gilbert Blythe will be in school today, said Diana.
She had a good chance to do so, for the said Gilbert Blythe was absorbed in stealthily pinning the long yellow braid of Ruby Gillis, who sat in front of him, to the back of her seat.
Gilbert Blythe was trying to make Anne Shirley look at him and failing utterly, because Anne was at that moment totally oblivious not only to the very existence of Gilbert Blythe, but of every other scholar in Avonlea school itself.
Gilbert Blythe wasnt used to putting himself out to make a girl look at him and meeting with failure.
She flashed one indignant glance at Gilbert from eyes whose angry sparkle was swiftly quenched in equally angry tears.
Gilbert had whisked the pin out of sight and was studying his history with the soberest face in the world; but when the commotion subsided he looked at Anne and winked with inexpressible drollery.
Four years ago his father was sick and had to go out to Alberta for his health and Gilbert went with him.
Youll have Gilbert in your class after this, said Diana, and hes used to being head of his class, I can tell you.
best son remind her more, so the marked absence of any tribute or recognition from Diana Barry who was sitting with Gertie Pye embittered Annes little triumph.
I solemnly swear to be faithful to my bosom friend, Diana Barry, as long as the sun and moon shall endure.
Diana Barry came home this afternoon.
If anyone wrote my name up with his Id never get over it, Diana Barry.
Diana Barry lives over at Orchard Slope
What is Diana like?
Her name is Diana.
and he called her Diana.
Diana is a very pretty little girl.
She wont let Diana play with any little girl who isnt nice and good.