Letter, Arthur Holmwood to Dr. Seward. "
" Telegram, Arthur Holmwood to Seward.
Arthur Holmwood, only son of Lord Godalming is coming up here very shortly as soon as he can leave town, for his father is not very well, and I think dear Lucy is counting the moments till he comes.
" Letter from Dr. Seward to Arthur Holmwood. "2 September.
" Telegram from Arthur Holmwood to Quincey P. Morris. "26 May.
You will tell him, because I would, if I were in your place, certainly tell Art.
No, he doesn't, for Arthur tried twice to make a chance, and I helping him all I could; I am not ashamed to say it now.
No, I don't, for there was Mr. Morris telling us his stories, and Art never told any, and
Arthur has just gone, and I feel in better spirits than when I left off, so I can go on telling you about the day.
That is slang again, but never mind; Arthur says that every day.
All her old gaiety of manner seemed to have come back, and she came and snuggled in beside me and told me all about Art.
"My dear Art,  "We've told yarns by the camp-fire in the prairies; and dressed one another's wounds after trying a landing at the Marquesas; and drunk healths on the shore of Titicaca.
Art says I am getting fat.
Before she answered, that sweet, puckered look came into her forehead, which Arthur I call him Arthur from her habit
Lucy and I sat awhile, and it was all so beautiful before us that we took hands as we sat; and she told me all over again about Arthur and their coming marriage.
I was not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare with our own Ordnance Survey maps; but I found that Bistritz, the post town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place.
When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and could tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife crossed themselves, and, saying that they knew nothing at all, simply refused to speak further.
, I said interrogatively:  "Count Dracula?"
All at once we heard the crow of a cock coming up with preternatural shrillness through the clear morning air; Count Dracula, jumping to his feet, said:  "Why, there is the morning again!
In the meantime I must find out all I can about Count Dracula, as it may help me to understand.
Again, when, after the battle of Mohcs, we threw off the Hungarian yoke, we of the Dracula blood were amongst their leaders, for our spirit would not brook that we were not free.
Was it not this Dracula, indeed, who inspired that other of his race who in a later age again and again brought his forces over the great river into Turkey-land; who, when he was beaten back, came again, and again, and again, though he had to come alone from the bloody field where his troops were being slaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph!
Ah, young sir, the Szekelys and the Dracula as their heart's blood, their brains, and their swords can boast a record that mushroom growths like the Hapsburgs and the Romanoffs can never reach.
This was a Dracula indeed!
"I am Dracula; and I bid you welcome, Mr. Harker, to my house.
my friend Jonathan Harker will not be by my side to correct and aid me.
"Yes," I said, "Jonathan Harker.
"I write by desire of Mr. Jonathan Harker, who is himself not strong enough to write, though progressing well, thanks to God and St. Joseph and Ste.
Jonathan Harker's Journal.
" When the wire was despatched he had a cup of tea; over it he told me of a diary kept by Jonathan Harker when abroad, and gave me a typewritten copy of it, as also of Mrs. Harker's diary at Whitby.
I may show it to Jonathan some day if there is in it anything worth sharing, but it is really an exercise book.
I have been working very hard lately, because I want to keep up with Jonathan's studies, and I have been practising shorthand very assiduously.
I have just had a few hurried lines from Jonathan from Transylvania.
When I go there I shall be all alone, and my friend Harker Jonathan nay, pardon me
I mean Jonathan and I shall ever see them together.
Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
Jonathan asks me to send his 'respectful duty,' but I do not think that is good enough from the junior partner of the important firm Hawkins & Harker; and
" Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.
" Letter, Lucy Westenra to Mina Harker. "Whitby, 30 August.
CHAPTER IX Letter, Mina Harker to Lucy Westenra.