I found her a fine woman, in the style of Blanche Ingram: tall, dark, and majestic.
"Afterwards, take a piece of smooth ivory you have one prepared in your drawing-box: take your palette, mix your freshest, finest, clearest tints; choose your most delicate camel-hair pencils; delineate carefully the loveliest face you can imagine; paint it in your softest shades and sweetest lines, according to the description given by Mrs. Fairfax of Blanche Ingram; remember the raven ringlets, the oriental eye;
With whom will Blanche Ingram pair?
An hour or two sufficed to sketch my own portrait in crayons; and in less than a fortnight I had completed an ivory miniature of an imaginary Blanche Ingram.
Blanche Ingram, after having repelled, by supercilious taciturnity, some efforts of Mrs. Dent and Mrs. Eshton to draw her into conversation, had first murmured over some sentimental tunes and airs on the piano, and then, having fetched a novel from the library, had flung herself in haughty listlessness on a sofa, and prepared to beguile, by the spell of fiction, the tedious hours of absence.
Recall the august yet harmonious lineaments, the Grecian neck and bust; let the round and dazzling arm be visible, and the delicate hand; omit neither diamond ring nor gold bracelet; portray faithfully the attire, aerial lace and glistening satin, graceful scarf and golden rose; call it 'Blanche, an accomplished lady of rank.'
But the three most distinguished partly, perhaps, because the tallest figures of the band were the Dowager Lady Ingram and her daughters, Blanche and Mary.
" I was about again to revert to the probability of a union between Mr. Rochester and the beautiful Blanche; but Adele came in, and the conversation was turned into another channel.
Mary was too slim for her height, but Blanche was moulded like a Dian.
"There are Mrs. Eshton and her three daughters very elegant young ladies indeed; and there are the Honourable Blanche and Mary Ingram, most beautiful women, I suppose: indeed I have seen Blanche, six or seven years since, when she was a girl of eighteen.
And Miss Ingram:
Miss Ingram!" exclaimed Mrs. Fairfax, and away she hurried to her post below.
I should think there were fifty ladies and gentlemen present all of the first county families; and Miss Ingram was considered the belle of the evening."
I never saw a more splendid scene: the ladies were magnificently dressed; most of them at least most of the younger ones looked handsome; but Miss Ingram was certainly the queen."
I cannot tell whether Miss Ingram was a genius, but she was self-conscious remarkably self-conscious indeed.
Bessie Lee must, I think, have been a girl of good natural capacity, for she was smart in all she did, and had a remarkable knack of narrative; so, at least, I judge from the impression made on me by her nursery tales.
"What does Bessie say I have done?" I asked.
a new thing for me, and a circumstance which greatly strengthened the bad opinion Bessie and Miss Abbot were disposed to entertain of me.
Me, she had dispensed from joining the group; saying, "She regretted to be under the necessity of keeping me at a distance; but that until she heard from Bessie, and could discover by her own observation, that I was endeavouring in good earnest to acquire a more sociable and childlike disposition, a more attractive and sprightly manner something lighter, franker, more natural, as it were she really must exclude me from privileges intended only for contented, happy, little children."
dreadful to me was the coming home in the raw twilight, with nipped fingers and toes, and a heart saddened by the chidings of Bessie, the nurse, and humbled by the consciousness of my physical inferiority to Eliza, John, and Georgiana Reed.
Bessie sometimes narrated on winter evenings, when she chanced to be in good humour; and when, having brought her ironing-table to the nursery hearth, she allowed us to sit about it, and while she got up Mrs. Reed's lace frills, and crimped her nightcap borders, fed our eager attention with passages of love and adventure taken from old fairy tales and other ballads; or (as at a later period I discovered) from the pages of Pamela, and Henry, Earl of Moreland.
Sometimes Leah is with her; they are frequently noisy together.
Leah, make a little hot negus and cut a sandwich or two: here are the keys of the storeroom."
She returned; with her own hands cleared her knitting apparatus and a book or two from the table, to make room for the tray which Leah now brought, and then herself handed me the refreshments.
; I had Leah in to read to me sometimes; but I don't think the poor girl liked the task much: she felt it confining.
Leah is a nice girl to be sure, and John and his wife are very decent people; but then you see they are only servants, and one can't converse with them on terms of equality: one must keep them at due distance, for fear of losing one's authority.
, I believe I gave orders that Jane Eyre should be left in the red-room till I came to her myself."
"Well, you have been crying, Miss Jane Eyre; can you tell me what about?
"Jane Eyre, sir."
I heard him in a blubbering tone commence the tale of how "that nasty Jane Eyre" had flown at him like a mad cat: he was stopped rather harshly "Don't talk to me about her, John: I told you not to go near her; she is not worthy of notice; I do not choose that either you or your sisters should associate with her."
Well, Jane Eyre, and are you a good child?
Say your prayers, Miss Eyre, when you are by yourself; for if you don't repent, something bad might be permitted to come down the chimney and fetch you away.
Nothing of the sort was visible; and when I asked a waiter if any one had been to inquire after a Miss Eyre, I was answered in the negative:
"Why, Miss Eyre, though Mr. Rochester's visits here are rare, they are always sudden and unexpected; and as I observed that it put him out to find everything swathed up, and to have a bustle of arrangement on his arrival, I thought it best to keep the rooms in readiness."
Miss Eyre, are you ill?" said Bessie.
"Here is Miss Eyre, sir," said Mrs. Fairfax, in her quiet way.
She was not allowed much time for meditation: a monitor, a great rough girl, presently came up, exclaiming in a strong Cumberland accent "Helen Burns, if you don't go and put your drawer in order, and fold up your work this minute, I'll tell Miss Scatcherd to come and look at it!"
"And cross and cruel," I added; but Helen Burns would not admit my addition: she kept silence. "
Still I felt that Helen Burns considered things by a light invisible to my eyes.
" In her turn, Helen Burns asked me to explain, and I proceeded forthwith to pour out, in my own way, the tale of my sufferings and resentments.
Helen Burns asked some slight question about her work of Miss Smith, was chidden for the triviality of the inquiry, returned to her place, and smiled at me as she again went by.
Helen was talking to herself now: she had forgotten
"But I feel this, Helen; I must dislike those who, whatever I do to please them, persist in disliking me; I must resist those who punish me unjustly.
" Helen's head, always drooping, sank a little lower as she finished this sentence.
"You say you have faults, Helen: what are they?
"Helen."
Sir George Lynn was talking of a Reed of Gateshead yesterday, who, he said, was one of the veriest rascals on town; and Ingram was mentioning a Georgiana Reed of the same place, who was much admired for her beauty
Georgiana, who had a spoiled temper, a very acrid spite, a captious and insolent carriage, was universally indulged.
Did you hear her, Eliza and Georgiana?
The said Eliza, John, and Georgiana were now clustered round their mama in the drawing-room: she lay reclined on a sofa by the fireside, and with her darlings about her (for the time neither quarrelling nor crying) looked perfectly happy.
"Yes, I doat on Miss Georgiana!" cried the fervent Abbot. "
Bessie had now finished dusting and tidying the room, and having washed her hands, she opened a certain little drawer, full of splendid shreds of silk and satin, and began making a new bonnet for Georgiana's doll.
Rosamond Oliver," said he, "is about to be married to Mr. Granby, one of the best connected and most estimable residents in S-, grandson and heir to Sir Frederic Granby: I had the intelligence from her father yesterday.
"It is strange," pursued he, "that while I love Rosamond Oliver so wildly with all the intensity, indeed, of a first passion, the object of which is exquisitely beautiful, graceful, fascinating I experience at the same time a calm, unwarped consciousness that she would not make me a good wife; that she is not the partner suited to me; that I should discover this within a year after marriage; and that to twelve months' rapture would succeed a lifetime of regret.
And now it is deluged with a nectarous flood the young germs swamped delicious poison cankering them: now I see myself stretched on an ottoman in the drawing-room at Vale Hall at my bride Rosamond Oliver's feet: she is talking to me with her sweet voice gazing down on me with those eyes your skilful hand has copied so well smiling at me with these coral lips.
The translation of a few pages of German occupied an hour; then I got my palette and pencils, and fell to the more soothing, because easier occupation, of completing Rosamond Oliver's miniature.
Rosamond Oliver kept her word in coming to visit me.
Rosamond was full of glee and pleasure all the time I stayed.
I am sure it would benefit him to talk a little about this sweet Rosamond, whom he thinks he ought not to marry: I will make him talk.
The sketch of Rosamond's portrait pleased him highly: he said I must make a finished picture of it.
It appeared, then, that her father would throw no obstacle in the way of Rosamond's union with St. John.
"Not to-night, Miss Rosamond, not to-night."
And it was the voice of a human being a known, loved, well-remembered voice that of Edward Fairfax Rochester; and it spoke in pain and woe, wildly, eerily, urgently.
Mr. Briggs calmly took a paper from his pocket, and read out in a sort of official, nasal voice: "'I affirm and can prove that on the 20th of October A.D. - (a date of fifteen years back), Edward Fairfax Rochester, of Thornfield Hall, in the county of -, and of Ferndean Manor, in -shire, England, was married to my sister, Bertha Antoinetta Mason, daughter of Jonas Mason, merchant, and of Antoinetta
, I had recognised him it was my master, Edward Fairfax Rochester, and no other.
"Yes, Mrs. Rochester," said he; "young Mrs. Rochester Fairfax Rochester's girl-bride."
" I could not forget how the arm had trembled which he rested on my shoulder: and it was no light matter which could thus bow the resolute spirit and thrill the vigorous frame of Fairfax Rochester.
"No, no, sir; besides the delicacy and richness of the fabric, I found nothing save Fairfax Rochester's pride; and that did not scare me, because I am used to the sight of the demon.
But she could remember Bill Oliver's father a journeyman needlemaker; and th' Rivers wor gentry
"Aye; old Mr. Rivers lived here, and his father, and grandfather, and gurt
Old Mr. Rivers, she said, was a plain man enough, but a gentleman, and of as ancient a family as could be found.
"And his sisters are called Diana and Mary Rivers?"
"The name, then, of that gentleman, is Mr. St. John Rivers?"
Diana Rivers had designated her brother "inexorable as death.
My father always cherished the idea that he would atone for his error by leaving his possessions to us; that letter informs us that he has bequeathed every penny to the other relation, with the exception of thirty guineas, to be divided between St. John, Diana, and Mary Rivers, for the purchase of three mourning rings.
Diana and Mary Rivers became more sad and silent as the day approached for leaving their brother and their home.
And old Madam Reed, or the Misses, her daughters, will be solicited by you to seek a place, I suppose?"
Boh! Madam Mope!" cried the voice of John Reed; then he paused: he found the room apparently empty.
All John Reed's violent tyrannies, all his sisters' proud indifference, all his mother's aversion, all the servants' partiality, turned up in my disturbed mind like a dark deposit in a turbid well.
John Reed was a schoolboy of fourteen years old; four years older than I, for I was but ten: large and stout for his age, with a dingy and unwholesome skin; thick lineaments in a spacious visage, heavy limbs and large extremities.
"It is well I drew the curtain," thought I; and I wished fervently he might not discover my hiding-place: nor would John Reed have found it out himself; he was not quick either of vision or conception; but Eliza just put her head in at the door, and said at once "She is in the window-seat, to be sure, Jack."
Accustomed to John Reed's abuse, I never had an idea of replying to it; my care was how to endure the blow which would certainly follow the insult.
"To Miss Temple?
Let the reader add, to complete the picture, refined features; a complexion, if pale, clear; and a stately air and carriage, and he will have, at least, as clearly as words can give it, a correct idea of the exterior of Miss Temple Maria Temple, as I afterwards saw the name written in a prayer-book intrusted to me to carry to church.
"Did you say that tall lady was called Miss Temple?"
I shall send Miss Temple notice that she is to expect a new girl, so that there will be no difficulty about receiving her.
I will speak to Miss Temple and the teachers."
I thought no more of Mrs. Fairfax; I thought no more of Grace Poole, or the laugh: in an instant, I was within the chamber.
Was that Grace Poole?
Grace Poole you have guessed it.
When thus alone, I not unfrequently heard Grace Poole's laugh: the same peal, the same low, slow ha!
"Some of the servants, very likely," she answered: "perhaps Grace Poole."
"Too much noise, Grace," said Mrs. Fairfax.
That woman was no other than Grace Poole.
Yes, but we are not to conform to nature; I wish these girls to be the children of Grace: and why that abundance?
Grace curtseyed silently and went in.
I really did not expect any Grace to answer; for the laugh was as tragic, as preternatural a laugh as any I ever heard; and, but that it was high noon, and that no circumstance of ghostliness accompanied the curious cachinnation; but that neither scene nor season favoured fear, I should have been superstitiously afraid.