When those dances were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy who took her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without knowing what she did, she accepted him.
Mr. Bennets emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and more foolish than his daughter!
Elizabeth, for the sake of saying something that might turn her mothers thoughts, now asked her if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since her coming away.
But Elizabeth was not formed for ill-humour; and though every prospect of her own was destroyed for the evening, it could not dwell long on her spirits; and having told all her griefs to Charlotte Lucas, whom she had not seen for a week, she was soon able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of her cousin, and to point him out to her particular notice.
While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend the day with them.
It may perhaps be pleasant, replied Charlotte, to be able to impose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be so very guarded.
You began the evening well, Charlotte, said Mrs. Bennet with civil self-command to Miss Lucas.
My overhearings were more to the purpose than yours, Eliza, said Charlotte.
You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound.
What does Mr. Darcy mean, said she to Charlotte, by listening to my conversation with Colonel Forster?
I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure him of my hearty consent to his marrying whichever he chooses of the girls; though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy.
I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy.
But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood.
Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley.
You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the party.
Lydia, my love, though you are the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next ball.
I am sick of Mr. Bingley, cried his wife.
Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to her.
Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from her husband any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley.
We are not in a way to know what Mr. Bingley likes, said her mother resentfully, since we are not to visit.
She had been watching him the last hour, she said, as he walked up and down the street, and had Mr. Wickham appeared, Kitty and Lydia would certainly have continued the occupation, but unluckily no one passed windows now except a few of the officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become stupid, disagreeable fellows.
Some of them were to dine with the Phillipses the next day, and their aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr. Wickham, and give him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn would come in the evening.
Mr. Wickham, after a few moments, touched his hata salutation which Mr. Darcy just deigned to return.
Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with him the day before from town, and he was happy to say had accepted a commission in their corps.
As no objection was made to the young peoples engagement with their aunt, and all Mr. Collinss scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room, that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncles invitation, and was then in the house.
Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed.
She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned George Wickham.
It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because he had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which of course recommended him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in being with him, as well as by his evident admiration of her, of her former favourite George Wickham; and though, in comparing them, she saw there was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliams manners, she believed he might have the best informed mind.
I do not know the particulars, but I know very well that Mr. Darcy is not in the least to blame, that he cannot bear to hear George Wickham mentioned, and that though my brother thought that he could not well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers, he was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself out of the way.
So, Miss Eliza, I hear you are quite delighted with George Wickham!
With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind listener in Mrs. Phillips, and was by her watchfulness, most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin.
Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to Elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him, though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be toldthe history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy.
The gentlemen did approach, and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room, Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration.
The officers of the shire were in general a very creditable, gentlemanlike set, and the best of them were of the present party; but Mr. Wickham was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and walk, as they were superior to the broad-faced, stuffy uncle Phillips, breathing port wine, who followed them into the room.
Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia.
to Miss Lydia Bennet, without there being a syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything.
To be sure, it would have been more for the advantage of conversation had Miss Lydia Bennet come upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded from the world, in some distant farmhouse.
Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted by the Gardiners and Jane; but as he took up his abode with the Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs. Bennet.
The first part of Mrs. Gardiners business on her arrival was to distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions.
When she was only fifteen, there was a man at my brother Gardiners in town so much in love with her that my sister-in-law was sure he would make her an offer before we came away.
As they drove to Mr. Gardiners door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival; when they entered the passage she was there to welcome them, and Elizabeth, looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever.
26 Mrs. Gardiners caution to Elizabeth was punctually and kindly given on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone; after honestly telling her what she thought, she thus went on:
I really do not think Georgiana Darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the affection she inspires in Louisa and myself is heightened into something still more interesting, from the hope we dare entertain of her being hereafter our sister.
About a year ago, she was taken from school, and an establishment formed for her in London; and last summer she went with the lady who presided over it, to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were most unhappily deceived; and by her connivance and aid, he so far recommended himself to Georgiana, whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to her as a child, that she was persuaded to believe herself in love, and to consent to an elopement.
When my niece Georgiana went to Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of her having two men-servants go with her.
Bingley was ready, Georgiana was eager, and Darcy determined, to be pleased.
Georgianas reception of them was very civil, but attended with all the embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves inferior the belief of her being proud and reserved.
How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?
All were struck with the strangers air, all wondered who he could be; and Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible to find out, led the way across the street, under pretense of wanting something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained the pavement when the two gentlemen, turning back, had reached the same spot.
Kitty stared at him, and Lydia exclaimed.
Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose, said Mr. Bennet; and, as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife.
I do not cough for my own amusement, replied Kitty fretfully.
Dont keep coughing so, Kitty, for Heavens sake!