Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are my art, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray's good looks we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly."
But tell me, what did she say about Mr. Dorian Gray?"
I have always been my own master; had at least always been so, till I met Dorian Gray.
I want you to explain to me why you won't exhibit Dorian Gray's picture.
I turned half-way round and saw Dorian Gray for the first time.
There is nothing that art cannot express, and I know that the work I have done, since I met Dorian Gray, is good work, is the best work of my life.
What the invention of oil-painting was to the Venetians, the face of Antinous was to late Greek sculpture, and the face of Dorian Gray will some day be to me.
Dorian told me so afterwards.
Tell me more about Mr. Dorian Gray.
if you only knew what Dorian Gray is to me!
Your voice and the voice of Sibyl Vane are two things that I shall never forget.
Sibyl Vane is sacred!"
"I wish now I had not told you about Sibyl Vane."
what are your actual relations with Sibyl Vane?
"Her name is Sibyl Vane."
"When is she Sibyl Vane?"
He would insist on calling me 'My Lord,' so I had to assure Sibyl that I was not anything of the kind.
"Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments."
"Sibyl is the only thing I care about.
"Well, I can't help going to see Sibyl play," he cried, "even if it is only for a single act.
"I hate the way you talk about your married life, Harry," said Basil Hallward, strolling towards the door that led into the garden.
Lord Henry felt as if he could hear Basil Hallward's heart beating, and wondered what was coming.
He pictured to himself with silent amusement the tedious luncheon that he had missed by staying so long with Basil Hallward.
" asked Lord Henry, walking across the studio towards Basil Hallward.
"Harry," said Basil Hallward, looking him straight in the face, "every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter.
Hallward shook his head.
"Harry!" exclaimed Hallward, frowning.
"I will tell you," said Hallward; but an expression of perplexity came over his face.
You are hard on her, Harry!" said Hallward listlessly.
Hallward got up from the seat and walked up and down the garden.
Why, my dear Basil, he is a Narcissus, and you well, of course you have an intellectual expression and all that.
Upon my word, Basil, I didn't know you were so vain; and I really can't see any resemblance between you, with your rugged strong face and your coal-black hair, and this young Adonis, who looks as if he was made out of ivory and rose-leaves.
"Not at all," answered Lord Henry, "not at all, my dear Basil.
"It is your best work, Basil, the best thing you have ever done," said Lord Henry languidly.
"I am afraid I must be going, Basil," he murmured, "and before I go, I insist on your answering a question I put to you some time ago."