Even Silver, eating away, with Captain Flint upon his shoulder, had not a word of blame for their recklessness.
Every here and there, one of a different species rose forty or fifty feet clear above its neighbours, and which of these was the particular tall tree of Captain Flint could only be decided on the spot, and by the readings of the compass.
The name of Captain Flint, though it was strange to me, was well enough known to some there and carried a great weight of terror.
All at once there began the most horrid, unearthly screaming, which at first startled me badly, though I had soon remembered the voice of Captain Flint and even thought I could make out the bird by her bright plumage as she sat perched upon her master's wrist.
Silver's green parrot, Captain Flint!
You have heard of this Flint, I suppose?
Blackbeard was a child to Flint.
I was first mate, I was, old Flint's first mate, and I'm the on'y one as knows the place.
Flint's fist, I mean, he cried.
I seen old Flint in the corner there, behind you; as plain as print, I seen him; and if I get the horrors, I'm a man that has lived rough, and I'll raise Cain.
But he was too deep, and too ready, and too clever for me, and by the time the two men had come back out of breath and confessed that they had lost the track in a crowd, and been scolded like thieves, I would have gone bail for the innocence of Long John Silver.
Long John Silver unearthed a very competent man for a mate, a man named Arrow.
Well, squire, said Dr. Livesey, I don't put much faith in your discoveries, as a general thing; but I will say this, John Silver suits me.
Long John Silver, he is called, and has lost a leg; but that I regarded as a recommendation, since he lost it in his country's service, under the immortal Hawke.
At the Sign of the Spy-glass WHEN I had done breakfasting the squire gave me a note addressed to John Silver, at the sign of the Spy-glass, and told me I should easily find the place by following the line of the docks and keeping a bright lookout for a little tavern with a large brass telescope for sign.
Mr. Silver, sir?
I forgot to tell you that Silver is a man of substance; I know of my own knowledge that he has a banker's account, which has never been overdrawn.
If he were Admiral Hawke he shall pay his score, cried Silver; and then, relinquishing my hand, Who did you say he was?
Between Silver and myself we got together in a few days a company of the toughest old salts imaginable not pretty to look at, but fellows, by their faces, of the most indomitable spirit.
So? cried Silver.
Black Dog! said he.
That's you, Bill, returned Black Dog, you're in the right of it, Billy.
Black Dog as ever was, come for to see his old shipmate Billy, at the Admiral Benbow inn.
When I returned with the rum, they were already seated on either side of the captain's breakfast-table Black Dog next to the door and sitting sideways so as to have one eye on his old shipmate and one, as I thought, on his retreat.
Then all of a sudden there was a tremendous explosion of oaths and other noises the chair and table went over in a lump, a clash of steel followed, and then a cry of pain, and the next instant I saw Black Dog in full flight, and the captain hotly pursuing, both with drawn cutlasses, and the former streaming blood from the left shoulder.
It's to you, Abraham Gray
The captain sat down to his log, and here is the beginning of the entry: Alexander Smollett, master; David Livesey, ship's doctor; Abraham Gray, carpenter's mate; John Trelawney, owner; John Hunter and Richard Joyce, owner's servants, landsmen being all that is left faithful of the ship's company with stores for ten days at short rations, came ashore this day and flew British colours on the log-house in Treasure Island.
There was a sudden scuffle, a sound of blows, and out burst Abraham Gray with a knife cut on the side of the cheek, and came running to the captain like a dog to the whistle.
Gray and Hunter were the first to come forward.
The captain and Gray were already examining him, and I saw with half an eye that all was over.
Israel was Flint's gunner, said Gray hoarsely.
The current's less a'ready, sir, said the man Gray, who was sitting in the fore-sheets; you can ease her off a bit.
At the same time, observing Gray to be unarmed, I handed him my cutlass.
John Trelawney Postscript I did not tell you that Blandly, who, by the way, is to send a consort after us if we don't turn up by the end of August, had found an admirable fellow for sailing master a stiff man, which I regret, but in all other respects a treasure.
Now, to tell you the truth, from the very first mention of Long John in Squire Trelawney's letter I had taken a fear in my mind that he might prove to be the very one-legged sailor whom I had watched for so long at the old Benbow.
Dog, sir, said I. Has Mr. Trelawney not told you of the buccaneers?
Mr. Trelawney had taken up his residence at an inn far down the docks to superintend the work upon the schooner.
Long before it was done, Mr. Trelawney (that, you will remember, was the squire's name) had got up from his seat and was striding about the room, and the doctor, as if to hear the better, had taken off his powdered wig and sat there looking very strange indeed with his own close-cropped black poll.
Trelawney, said the doctor, I'll go with you; and I'll go bail for it, so will Jim, and be a credit to the undertaking.
Squire, said he, when Dance has had his ale he must, of course, be off on his Majesty's service; but I mean to keep Jim Hawkins here to sleep at my house, and with your permission, I propose we should have up the cold pie and let him sup.
But the wind was wanting; and to complete our helplessness, down came Hunter with the news that Jim Hawkins had slipped into a boat and was gone ashore with the rest.
Jim Hawkins is gone, was my first thought.
It never occurred to us to doubt Jim Hawkins, but we were alarmed for his safety.
And at the same time, I was wondering over poor Jim Hawkins' fate.
Here's luck, A fair wind, and Billy Bones his fancy, were very neatly and clearly executed on the forearm; and up near the shoulder there was a sketch of a gallows and a man hanging from it done, as I thought, with great spirit.
This was not the map we found in Billy Bones's chest, but an accurate copy, complete in all things names and heights and soundings with the single exception of the red crosses and the written notes.
And now, Master Billy Bones, if that be your name, we'll have a look at the colour of your blood.
That would have been Flint's, or Billy Bones's.
Billy Bones was the mate; Long John, he was quartermaster; and they asked him where the treasure was. '
Now, Mrs. Hawkins, just you run upstairs to your husband and tell him, if possible, nothing about it.
This lad Hawkins is a trump, I perceive.
Hawkins, will you ring that bell?
Well, then, Hawkins, what in fortune were they after?
As you will, Livesey, said the squire; Hawkins has earned better than cold pie.
At last, however, we got alongside, and were met and saluted as we stepped aboard by the mate, Mr. Arrow, a brown old sailor with earrings in his ears and a squint.
It had been originally meant that the captain, Mr. Arrow, Hunter, Joyce, the doctor, and the squire were to occupy these six berths.
Well, gentlemen, continued the captain, I don't know who has this map; but I make it a point, it shall be kept secret even from me and Mr. Arrow.
As for Mr. Arrow, I believe him thoroughly honest; some of the men are the same; all may be for what I know.
When we came on deck, the men had begun already to take out the arms and powder, yo-ho-ing at their work, while the captain and Mr. Arrow stood by superintending.
Now Redruth and I were to get two of them and Mr. Arrow and the captain were to sleep on deck in the companion, which had been enlarged on each side till you might almost have called it a round-house.
Terrified as I was, I could not help thinking to myself that this must have been how Mr. Arrow got the strong waters that destroyed him.
Mr. Arrow, first of all, turned out even worse than the captain had feared.
reiterated Pew, striking with his stick upon the road.
Pew, we've got the doubloons!
cried the blind man, Pew.
roared Pew.
Pew, he cried, they've been before us.