I saw they were full of stupid admiration; she is so immeasurably superior to them to everybody on earth, is she not, Nelly?' '
'I recommenced cursing don't be angry, Nelly
The devil had seized her ankle, Nelly: I heard his abominable snorting.
Nelly,' he replied.
He hung about me for a while, and having screwed up his courage, exclaimed abruptly 'Nelly, make me decent, I'm going to be good.' '
Well, that settles it: if you have only to do with the present, marry Mr. Linton.'
'"What culpable carelessness in her brother!" exclaimed Mr. Linton, turning from me to Catherine.
Mr. Linton, sir, don't lay by your gun."
Yes; and her husband was her cousin also: one on the mother's, the other on the father's side: Heathcliff married Mr. Linton's sister.'
Then the woman-servant brought a basin of warm water, and washed her feet; and Mr. Linton mixed a tumbler of negus, and Isabella emptied a plateful of cakes into her lap, and Edgar stood gaping at a distance.
No; he is the late Mrs. Linton's nephew.' '
Old Mr. and Mrs. Linton were not there; Edgar and his sisters had it entirely to themselves.
He pulled me under the chandelier, and Mrs. Linton placed her spectacles on her nose and raised her hands in horror.
Mrs. Linton took off the grey cloak of the dairy-maid which we had borrowed for our excursion, shaking her head and expostulating with her, I suppose: she was a young lady, and they made a distinction between her treatment and mine.
They met, and the master, irritated at seeing him clean and cheerful, or, perhaps, eager to keep his promise to Mrs. Linton, shoved him back with a sudden thrust, and angrily bade Joseph 'keep the fellow out of the room send him into the garret till dinner is over.
And now, though I have dinner to get ready, I'll steal time to arrange you so that Edgar Linton shall look quite a doll beside you: and that he does.
In other words, I must wish for Edgar Linton's great blue eyes and even forehead,' he replied. '
I'd not exchange, for a thousand lives, my condition here, for Edgar Linton's at Thrushcross Grange not if I might have the privilege of flinging Joseph off the highest gable, and painting the house-front with Hindley's blood!' '
The curate dropped calling, and nobody decent came near us, at last; unless Edgar Linton's visits to Miss Cathy might be an exception.
Isabella and Edgar Linton talked of calling this afternoon,' she said, at the conclusion of a minute's silence. '
Catherine Linton,' it replied, shiveringly (why did I think of Linton?
I had read Earnshaw twenty times for Linton)
a name repeated in all kinds of characters, large and small Catherine Earnshaw, here and there varied to Catherine Heathcliff, and then again to Catherine Linton.
In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window, and continued spelling over Catherine Earnshaw Heathcliff Linton, till my eyes closed; but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark, as vivid as spectres the air swarmed with Catherines; and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name, I discovered my candle-wick reclining on one of the antique volumes, and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calf-skin.
I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation; but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams; affirming I had never heard the appellation of 'Catherine Linton' before, but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control.
I used to draw a comparison between him and Hindley Earnshaw, and perplex myself to explain satisfactorily why their conduct was so opposite in similar circumstances.
I was almost always at Wuthering Heights; because my mother had nursed Mr. Hindley Earnshaw, that was Hareton's father, and I got used to playing with the children
Hindley Earnshaw!
On my second visit Linton seemed in lively spirits; and Zillah (that is their housekeeper) made us a clean room and a good fire, and told us that, as Joseph was out at a prayer-meeting and Hareton Earnshaw was off with his dogs robbing our woods of pheasants, as I heard afterwards
And who is that Earnshaw: Hareton Earnshaw, who lives with Mr. Heathcliff?
Hareton Earnshaw that is, Miss Cathy's other cousin, and so yours in a manner will show you all the sweetest spots; and you can bring a book in fine weather, and make a green hollow your study; and, now and then, your uncle may join you in a walk: he does, frequently, walk out on the hills.' '
My name is Hareton Earnshaw,' growled the other; 'and I'd counsel you to respect it!'
Before passing the threshold, I paused to admire a quantity of grotesque carving lavished over the front, and especially about the principal door; above which, among a wilderness of crumbling griffins and shameless little boys, I detected the date '1500,' and the name 'Hareton Earnshaw.'
Maister Hindley!" shouted our chaplain.
'Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth, and seizing one of us by the collar, and the other by the arm, hurled both into the back-kitchen
Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff
Hindley calls him a vagabond, and won't let him sit with us, nor eat with us any more; and, he says, he and I must not play together, and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders.
Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret; and, while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable fire doing anything but reading their Bibles, I'll answer for it Heathcliff, myself, and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer-books, and mount:
On opening the little door, two hairy monsters flew at my throat, bearing me down, and extinguishing the light; while a mingled guffaw from Heathcliff and Hareton put the copestone on my rage and humiliation.
And Hareton has been cast out like an unfledged dunnock!
As to staying here, I don't keep accommodations for visitors: you must share a bed with Hareton or Joseph, if you do.'
Very old, sir; and Hareton is the last of them, as our Miss Cathy is of us
Hareton, drive those dozen sheep into the barn porch.
My name was Isabella Linton,' I replied. '
His new source of trouble sprang from the not anticipated misfortune of Isabella Linton evincing a sudden and irresistible attraction towards the tolerated guest.
If they were mine, they would be none the less that,' said Heathcliff; 'but though Isabella Linton may be silly, she is scarcely mad; and, in short, we'll dismiss the matter, as you advise.'
But that's because I'm used to Edgar and Isabella Linton.
Cathy begged that he might be liberated then, as Isabella Linton had no partner: her entreaties were vain, and I was appointed to supply the deficiency.
Hush, Isabella!
Isabella has not her natural advantages,' replied his wife: 'but she must mind and not grow wild again here.
He seized a tureen of hot apple sauce (the first thing that came under his grip) and dashed it full against the speaker's face and neck; who instantly commenced a lament that brought Isabella and Catherine hurrying to the place.
Catherine had kept up her acquaintance with the Lintons since her five-weeks' residence among them; and as she had no temptation to show her rough side in their company, and had the sense to be ashamed of being rude where she experienced such invariable courtesy, she imposed unwittingly on the old lady and gentleman by her ingenious cordiality; gained the admiration of Isabella, and the heart and soul of her brother: acquisitions that flattered her from the first for she was full of ambition and led her to adopt a double character without exactly intending to deceive any one.
The cowardly children crept nearer also, Isabella lisping "Frightful thing!
You'd better let the dog alone,' growled Mr. Heathcliff in unison, checking fiercer demonstrations with a punch of his foot. '
But Mr. Heathcliff forms a singular contrast to his abode and style of living.
Mr. Heathcliff?'
Mr. Heathcliff may have entirely dissimilar reasons for keeping his hand out of the way when he meets a would-be acquaintance, to those which actuate me.
Wuthering Heights is the name of Mr. Heathcliff's dwelling. '