The Count may come to Piccadilly earlier than we think."
The expression of the Count's face was so hellish, that for a moment I feared for Harker, though I saw him throw the terrible knife aloft again for another stroke.
Had we done so, the Count must have guessed our purpose, and would doubtless have taken measures in advance to frustrate such an effort with regard to the others; but now he does not know our intentions.
Even my own terrible experiences in Castle Dracula seem like a long-forgotten dream.
Somewhere high overhead, probably on the tower, I heard the voice of the Count calling in his harsh, metallic whisper.
There lay the Count, but looking as if his youth had been half renewed, for the white hair and moustache were changed to dark iron-grey; the cheeks were fuller, and the white skin seemed ruby-red underneath; the mouth was redder than ever, for on the lips were gouts of fresh blood, which trickled from the corners of the mouth and ran over the chin and neck.
I know that when the Count wills me I must go.
I saw the Count lying within the box upon the earth, some of which the rude falling from the cart had scattered over him.
We moved to explore the house, all keeping together in case of attack; for we knew we had a strong and wily enemy to deal with, and as yet we did not know whether the Count might not be in the house.
"I believe it is the Count, but he has grown young.
This was startling, and, coming on the top of so many strange things, was beginning to increase that vague feeling of uneasiness which I always have when the Count is near; but at the instant I saw that the cut had bled a little, and the blood was trickling over my chin.
As we burst into the room, the Count turned his face, and the hellish look that I had heard described seemed to leap into it.
The purchaser is a foreign nobleman, Count de Ville, who effected the purchase himself paying the purchase money in notes 'over the counter,' if your Lordship will pardon us using so vulgar an expression.
He must, indeed, have been that Voivode Dracula who won his name against the Turk, over the great river on the very frontier of Turkey-land.
We must sterilise all the imported earth between sunrise and sunset; we shall thus catch the Count at his weakest, and without a refuge to fly to.
The lamps were also lit in the study or library, and I found the Count lying on the sofa, reading, of all things in the world, an English Bradshaw's Guide.
It was evident to us that the Count was not at present in the house, and we proceeded to search for any of his effects.
It was now my object to trace that horrid cargo of the Count's to its place in London.
Still, it was better than living alone in the rooms which I had come to hate from the presence of the Count, and after trying a little to school my nerves, I found a soft quietude come over me.
Then I looked around for the Count, but, with surprise and gladness, made a discovery.
Having answered the Count's salutation, I turned to the glass again to see how I had been mistaken.
During the time I was eating it the Count asked me many questions as to my journey, and I told him by degrees all I had experienced.
Then she put before her face her poor crushed hands, which bore on their whiteness the red mark of the Count's terrible grip, and from behind them came a low desolate wail which made the terrible scream seem only the quick expression of an endless grief.
The Professor says that if we can so treat the Count's body, it will soon after fall into dust.
Thus the Count had knowledge of the persons who could arrange this service.
I thought he might have the keys on him, but when I went to search I saw the dead eyes, and in them, dead though they were, such a look of hate, though unconscious of me or my presence, that I fled from the place, and leaving the Count's room by the window, crawled again up the castle wall.
I knew that if anything were to take us to Castle Dracula we should go by Galatz, or at any rate through Bucharest, so I learned the times very carefully.
Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened, and the Count entered.
We all hurried and took from our rooms the same things that we had when we entered the Count's house.
As the Count did not come in, I have written here....
The slow, careful steps came along the hall; the Count was evidently prepared for some surprise at least he feared it.
Should the letters not carry, then the Count shall not yet know my secret or the extent of my knowledge....
If the Count escape us this time and he is strong and subtle and cunning he may choose to sleep him for a century, and then in time our dear one" he took my hand "would come to him to keep him company, and would be as those others that you, Jonathan, saw.
You have told us of their gloating lips; you heard their ribald laugh as they clutched the moving bag that the Count threw to them.
When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and could tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife crossed themselves, and, saying that they knew nothing at all, simply refused to speak further.
Count Dracula made his escape:  
If I be sane, then surely it is maddening to think that of all the foul things that lurk in this hateful place the Count is the least dreadful to me; that to him alone
Last night the Count asked me in the suavest tones to write three letters, one saying that my work here was nearly done, and that I should start for home within a few days, another that I was starting on the next morning from the time of the letter, and the third that I had left the castle and arrived at Bistritz.
In the trance of three days ago the Count sent her his spirit to read her mind; or more like he took her to see him in his earth-box in the ship with water rushing, just as it go free at rise and set of sun.
" I told him exactly what had happened, and he listened with seeming impassiveness; but his nostrils twitched and his eyes blazed as I told how the ruthless hands of the Count had held his wife in that terrible and horrid position, with her mouth to the open wound in his breast.
She know it not; and it would overwhelm her and make despair just when we want all her hope, all her courage; when most we want all her great brain which is trained like man's brain, but is of sweet woman and have a special power which the Count give her, and which he may not take away altogether though he think not so.
Then the Count turned, after looking at my face attentively, and said in a soft whisper:  "Yes, I too can love; you yourselves can tell it from the past.
It gave me almost a turn to see again one of the letters which I had seen on the Count's table before I knew of his diabolical plans.
To-day is the date of my last letter, and the Count has taken steps to prove that it was genuine, for again I saw him leave the castle by the same window, and in my clothes.
"But, Count," I said, "you know and speak English thoroughly!"
I was now myself looking out for the conveyance which was to take me to the Count.
It would be impossible to describe the expression of hate and baffled malignity of anger and hellish rage which came over the Count's face.
Wherever he may be in the Black Sea, the Count is hurrying to his destination.
The light and warmth and the Count's courteous welcome seemed to have dissipated all my doubts and fears.
Unless my ears deceived me, I heard the voice of the Count:  
When I had written my two letters I sat quiet, reading a book whilst the Count wrote several notes, referring as he wrote them to some books on his table.
I remember how much "The Dailygraph" and "The Whitby Gazette," of which I had made cuttings, helped us to understand the terrible events at Whitby when Count Dracula landed, so I shall look through the evening papers since then, and perhaps I shall get some new light.
I was awakened by the Count, who looked at me as grimly as a man can look as he said:  "To-morrow, my friend, we must part.
" I agreed heartily with him, and then I told him what we had found in his absence: that the house which Dracula had bought was the very next one to my own.
There was a certain method in the Count's inquiries, so I shall try to put them down in sequence; the knowledge may somehow or some time be useful to me.
The Count in his box, then, was on a river in an open boat propelled probably either by oars or poles, for the banks are near and it is working against stream.
My surmise is, this: that in London the Count decided to get back to his castle by water, as the most safe and secret way.
After supper I smoked, as on the last evening, and the Count stayed with me, chatting and asking questions on every conceivable subject, hour after hour.
It did indeed smell vilely like the old chapel at Carfax and with our previous experience it was plain to us that the Count had been using the place pretty freely.
He spoke to me before he went out, never more sweetly or tenderly, but he never mentioned a word of what had happened in the visit to the Count's house.
Ah, young sir, the Szekelys and the Dracula as their heart's blood, their brains, and their swords can boast a record that mushroom growths like the Hapsburgs and the Romanoffs can never reach.
Regarding our plans, we finally decided that Mina's guess was correct, and that if any waterway was chosen for the Count's escape back to his Castle, the Sereth and then the Bistritza at its junction, would be the one.
Without a pause I rushed up to the east window, and scrambled down the wall, as before, into the Count's room.
The Draculas were, says Arminius, a great and noble race, though now and again were scions who were held by their coevals to have had dealings with the Evil One.
I suppose one ought to pity any thing so hunted as is the Count.
It was the better part of an hour when the Count returned. "
I am in fear that her power of reading the Count's sensations may die away, just when we want it most.
This was a Dracula indeed!
With one sweep of his powerful arm, the Count threw the door shut, and the great bolts clanged and echoed through the hall as they shot back into their places.
I have only the Count to speak with, and he!
It had been locked after I left the Count.
But I am in hopes that I shall see more of you at Castle Dracula.
We can know now what was in the Count's mind, when he seize that money, though Jonathan's so fierce knife put him in the danger that even he dread.
I would fain have rebelled, but felt that in the present state of things it would be madness to quarrel openly with the Count whilst I am so absolutely in his power; and to refuse would be to excite his suspicion and to arouse his anger.
Then we looked back and saw where the clear line of Dracula's castle cut the sky; for we were so deep under the hill whereon
Everything is pretty well fixed now, I think, to welcome the Count on his return from his tour.
If that man had been an ordinary lunatic I would have taken my chance of trusting him; but he seems so mixed up with the Count in an indexy kind of way that I am afraid of doing anything wrong by helping his fads.
The Castle of Dracula now stood out against the red sky, and every stone of its broken battlements was articulated against the light of the setting sun.
I had been at the window somewhat less than half an hour, when I saw something coming out of the Count's window.
Godalming and Morris had rushed out into the yard, and Harker had lowered himself from the window to follow the Count.
The Count again excused himself, as he had dined out on his being away from home.
If it be that she can, by our hypnotic trance, tell what the Count see and hear, is it not more true that he who have hypnotise her first, and who have drink of her very blood and make her drink of his, should, if he will, compel her mind to disclose to him that which she know?
As the Count leaned over me and his hands touched me, I could not repress a shudder.
It is strange that as yet I have not seen the Count eat or drink.
But the Count!
" There seems to be through it all some thread of continuity.... That fearful Count was coming to London....
"The Count is a criminal and of criminal type.
Van Helsing is terribly anxious, and told me just now that he fears the Count is escaping us.
Here Quincey Morris added:  "I understand that the Count comes from a wolf country, and it may be that he shall get there before us.
What I saw was the Count's head coming out from the window.
"Count me in every time.
The Count's eyes gleamed, and he said:  "Listen to them the children of the night.
I thought it well to know if possible where the Count would go when he left the house.
Suddenly I felt a hand on my shoulder, and heard the Count's voice saying to me, "Good-morning.
The Count himself left my luggage inside and withdrew, saying, before he closed the door:  
As they sank into the darkness I felt a strange chill, and a lonely feeling came over me; but a cloak was thrown over my shoulders, and a rug across my knees, and the driver said in excellent German:  "The night is chill, mein Herr, and my master the Count bade
As I leaned from the window my eye was caught by something moving a storey below me, and somewhat to my left, where I imagined, from the order of the rooms, that the windows of the Count's own room would look out.
I was not able to light on any map or work giving the exact locality of the Castle Dracula, as there are no maps of this country as yet to compare with our own Ordnance Survey maps; but I found that Bistritz, the post town named by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place.
Two were dark, and had high aquiline noses, like the Count, and great dark, piercing eyes that seemed to be almost red when contrasted with the pale yellow moon.
His moods have so followed the doings of the Count, that the coming destruction of the monster may be carried to him in some subtle way.
The Count himself came forward and took off the cover of a dish, and I fell to at once on an excellent roast chicken.
"Count me in, Professor," said Mr. Quincey Morris, laconically as usual.
Then a wild desire took me to obtain that key at any risk, and I determined then and there to scale the wall again and gain the Count's room.
But still the door continued slowly to open, and only the Count's body stood in the gap.
As I waited I heard in the distance a gipsy song sung by merry voices coming closer, and through their song the rolling of heavy wheels and the cracking of whips; the Szgany and the Slovaks of whom the Count had spoken were coming.
Already the certainty that the Count is out of the country has given her comfort; and comfort is strength to her.
We didn't do much clearin' that day, an' had to remain the nicht at anchor; but in the mornin', braw an' airly, an hour before sun-up, a man came aboard wi' an order, written to him from England, to receive a box marked for one Count Dracula.
But, now that I know, I am not afraid, even of the Count.
May. I found that my landlord had got a letter from the Count, directing him to secure the best place on the coach for me; but on making inquiries as to details he seemed somewhat reticent, and pretended that he could not understand my German.
The Count suddenly stopped, just as poor Lucy had done outside the tomb, and cowered back.
Last evening when the Count came from his room he began by asking me questions on legal matters and on the doing of certain kinds of business.
That key must be in the Count's room; I must watch should his door be unlocked, so that I may get it and escape.
It was possible, if not likely, the Professor urged, that the Count might appear in Piccadilly during the day, and that if so we might be able to cope with him then and there.
The Count wanted isolation.
I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the great door below shut, and knew that the Count had returned.
There was a diabolical wickedness in the idea great enough for the Count, and as a last chance I cried out:  
When, an hour or two after, the Count came quietly into the room, his coming awakened me, for I had gone to sleep on the sofa.
The Czarina Catherine made a phenomenally quick journey so much so that Captain Donelson's suspicions were aroused; but his superstition united with his canniness played the Count's game for him, and he ran with his favouring wind through fogs and all till he brought up blindfold at Galatz.
I did not mention this last, lest it should give her needless pain; but it made my blood run cold in my veins to think of what had occurred with poor Lucy when the Count had sucked her blood.
If I thought that the Count's power over her would die away equally with her power of knowledge it would be a happy thought; but I am afraid that it may not be so.
I was conscious of the presence of the Count, and of his being as if lapped in a storm of fury.
he cannot escape to land where he dares not raise the lid of his coffin-box lest his Slovak carriers should in fear leave him to perish we shall go in the track where Jonathan went, from Bistritz over the Borgo, and find our way to the Castle of Dracula.
I could write in shorthand, which would puzzle the Count, if he did see it.
"Look here, sir," I said, "does what you have to do concern the Count?"
The Count smiled, and as his lips ran back over his gums, the long, sharp, canine teeth showed out strangely; he answered:  "Because your peasant is at heart a coward and a fool!
Was it not this Dracula, indeed, who inspired that other of his race who in a later age again and again brought his forces over the great river into Turkey-land; who, when he was beaten back, came again, and again, and again, though he had to come alone from the bloody field where his troops were being slaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately triumph!
It was finally agreed that before starting for Piccadilly we should destroy the Count's lair close at hand.
The blow was a powerful one; only the diabolical quickness of the Count's leap back saved him.
All those outbreaks were in some way linked with the proximity of the Count.
That the Count's arrangements were well made, has been proved.
But will not the Count take his rebuff wisely?
She said:  "Promise me that you will not tell me anything of the plans formed for the campaign against the Count.
If it be that I had not dreamt, the Count must have carried me here.
She is now quite awake, and look so well as I never saw her since that night at Carfax when we first enter the Count's house.
The rest of us are, with what patience we can, waiting their return or the coming of the Count.
When a couple of hours had passed I heard something stirring in the Count's room, something like a sharp wail quickly suppressed; and then there was silence, deep, awful silence, which chilled me.
Of one thing only am I certain; that it is no use making my ideas known to the Count.
The Count halted, putting down my bags, closed the door, and crossing the room, opened another door, which led into a small octagonal room lit by a single lamp, and seemingly without a window of any sort.
Then I stopped and looked at the Count.
The last I saw of Count Dracula was his kissing his hand to me; with a red light of triumph in his eyes, and with a smile that Judas in hell might be proud of.
I have had a long talk with the Count.
I thought I would watch for the Count's return, and for a long time sat doggedly at the window.
There must be no chances, this time; we shall, not rest until the Count's head and body have been separated, and we are sure that he cannot re-incarnate.
I had gained a new painful experience; the Count could, it was evident, handle the earth-boxes himself.
If then the Count meant to scatter these ghastly refuges of his over London, these places were chosen as the first of delivery, so that later he might distribute more fully.
, I must ask the Count about these superstitions)
Last night the Count left me early, and locked himself into his own room.
Count Dracula's problem is to get back to his own place.
Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel, which I found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country.
Now, if we allow for two days less for the ship's voyage, owing to such weather influences as we know that the Count can bring to bear; and if we allow a whole day and night for any delays which may occur to us, then we have a margin of nearly two weeks.
Indeed, it may not be a hard task, after all, for she herself has become reticent on the subject, and has not spoken of the Count or his doings ever since we told her of our decision.
Of one thing I am glad: if it was that the Count carried me here and undressed me, he must have been hurried in his task, for my pockets are intact.
while Count Dracula was speaking, there was that in his eyes and in his bearing which made me remember that I was a prisoner, and that if I wished it I could have no choice.
If the Count is there, Van Helsing and Seward will cut off his head at once and drive a stake through his heart.
The Count's child-thought see nothing; therefore he speak so free.
I looked about for something to read, for I did not like to go about the castle until I had asked the Count's permission.
This gave me a fright, for if there is no one else in the castle, it must have been the Count himself who was the driver of the coach that brought me here.
None of the others had met the Count at all at close quarters, and when I had seen him he was either in the fasting stage of his existence in his rooms
Besides, he called the Count 'lord and master,' and he may want to get out to help him in some diabolical way.
I have not yet seen the Count in the daylight.
At sunrise the Count could appear in his own form.
She said that there might be some law matter in which I could be useful; that amongst the Count's papers might be some clue which I could understand out of my experience in Transylvania; and that, as it was, all the strength we could muster was required to cope with the Count's extraordinary power.
Again, when, after the battle of Mohcs, we threw off the Hungarian yoke, we of the Dracula blood were amongst their leaders, for our spirit would not brook that we were not free.
I hope that before we get to Strasba we may see them; for if by that time we have not overtaken the Count, it may be necessary to take counsel together what to do next.
When we came to the part where Harker had rushed at the Count so recklessly, she clung to her husband's arm, and held it tight as though her clinging could protect him from any harm that might come.
It will be a bad lookout for the Count if the edge of that "Kukri" ever touches his throat, driven by that stern, ice-cold hand!
, I said interrogatively:  "Count Dracula?"
" I asked him again if it were really necessary that they should pursue the Count, for oh!
In the meantime I must find out all I can about Count Dracula, as it may help me to understand.
Once more have I seen the Count go out in his lizard fashion.
There is some fascination, surely, when I am moved by the mere presence of such an one, even lying as she lay in a tomb fretted with age and heavy with the dust of centuries, though there be that horrid odour such as the lairs of the Count have had.
With a last look around and at the box which contained the vile body, I ran from the place and gained the Count's room, determined to rush out at the moment the door should be opened.
There, in one of the great boxes, of which there were fifty in all, on a pile of newly dug earth, lay the Count!
He thinks that in the meantime I should see Renfield, as hitherto he has been a sort of index to the coming and going of the Count.
" Before I left the castle I so fixed its entrances that never more can the Count enter there Un-Dead.
The loop it makes is manifestly as close to Dracula's castle as can be got by water.
It is only a line dated from Castle Dracula, and says that he is just starting for home.
All at once we heard the crow of a cock coming up with preternatural shrillness through the clear morning air; Count Dracula, jumping to his feet, said:  "Why, there is the morning again!
The Count had his own purposes when he gave her what Van Helsing called "the Vampire's baptism of blood.