Elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he afterwards took occasion to ask her, when unattended to by any of the rest, whether all her sisters were at Longbourn.
Elizabeths collected behaviour, however, soon quieted his emotion; and as Miss Bingley, vexed and disappointed, dared not approach nearer to Wickham, Georgiana also recovered in time, though not enough to be able to speak any more.
And, above all, keep Mr. Bennet from fighting.
How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet looks this morning, Mr. Darcy, she cried;
Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol, attended her noble guest downstairs.
Elizabeth made no answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and reading in her neighbours looks, their equal amazement in beholding it.
His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a thousand tender recollections.
His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling.
Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.
cried Elizabeth, I am excessively diverted.
Elizabeth had not before believed him quite equal to such assurance; but she sat down, resolving within herself to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an impudent man.
Do not imagine, Miss Bennet, that your ambition will ever be gratified.
cried Elizabeth.
Her mothers ungraciousness, made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeths mind; and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell him that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the family.
Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought, said Mrs. Bennet; and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle directly.
The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart, and, by a manoeuvre of Mrs. Bennet, had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone, which gave them time to see how heartily they were wished away by some of the family.
cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin Elizabeth.
At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of Elizabeth after the health of her family.
A deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features, but he said not a word, and Elizabeth, though blaming herself for her own weakness, could not go on.
I remain, dear sir, with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your well-wisher and friend, WILLIAM COLLINS At four oclock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman, said Mr. Bennet, as he folded up the letter.
He bore with philosophy the conviction that Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and in spite of every thing, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune.
Mrs. Bennet was quite disconcerted.
said Mrs. Bennet more than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
To the little town of Lambton, the scene of Mrs. Gardiners former residence, and where she had lately learned some acquaintance still remained, they bent their steps, after having seen all the principal wonders of the country; and within five miles of Lambton, Elizabeth found from her aunt that Pemberley was situated.
Elizabeth coloured, and said: A little.
Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets were particularly intimate.
The darling wish of his sisters was then gratified; he bought an estate in a neighbouring county to Derbyshire, and Jane and Elizabeth, in addition to every other source of happiness, were within thirty miles of each other.
The eldest of them, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about twenty-seven, was Elizabeths intimate friend.
On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming to have any intention of speaking, Miss Lucas defied her friend to mention such a subject to him; which immediately provoking Elizabeth to do it, she turned to him and said: Did you not think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton?
He is certainly a good brother, said Elizabeth, as she walked towards one of the windows.
But the morrow passed off much better than she expected; for Mrs. Bennet luckily stood in such awe of her intended son-in-law that she ventured not to speak to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark her deference for his opinion.
My fingers, said Elizabeth, do not move over this instrument in the masterly manner which I see so many womens do.
Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins, or any congratulations to Elizabeth from his wife, the Longbourn family heard that the Collinses were come themselves to Lucas Lodge.
Jane recollected herself soon, and putting the letter away, tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the general conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave, than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her up stairs.
More than once did Elizabeth, in her ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy.
Wickhams affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected to find it; not equal to Lydias for him.
46 Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from Jane on their first arrival at Lambton; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but on the third her repining was over, and her sister justified, by the receipt of two letters from her at once, on one of which was marked that it had been missent elsewhere.
Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure, and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming when she found herself so affectionately received.
It was not till the afternoon, when he had joined them at tea, that Elizabeth ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on her briefly expressing her sorrow for what he must have endured, he replied, Say nothing of that.
In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennets visit, and sat about ten minutes with him in his library.
Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her reply; and at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the object of her choice, by explaining the gradual change which her estimation of him had undergone, relating her absolute certainty that his affection was not the work of a day, but had stood the test of many months suspense, and enumerating with energy all his good qualities, she did conquer her fathers incredulity, and reconcile him to the match.
Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt had reserved for them.
He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he went away, an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and Mrs. Bennets means, for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband.
To the rest of the family they paid little attention; avoiding Mrs. Bennet as much as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth, and nothing at all to the others.
Elizabeth received her congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
Elizabeths misery increased, at such unnecessary, such officious attention!
Mrs. Reynolds respect for Elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master.
Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state.
On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away.
Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more.
Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a doubt of his being present had never occurred to her.
He had certainly formed such a plan, and without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Miss Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern for the welfare of his friend.
No sooner did he appear than Elizabeth wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed; a resolution the more necessary to be made, but perhaps not the more easily kept, because she saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against them, and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour when he first came into the room.
As for Elizabeth, her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not long enough to determine her feelings towards one in that mansion; and she lay awake two whole hours endeavouring to make them out.
In Darcys presence she dared not mention Wickhams name; but Elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the various recollections connected with him gave her a moments distress; but exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, she presently answered the question in a tolerably detached tone.
Janes delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to Elizabeth privately of what Lydia had let fall; Elizabeth was glad of it;till
Even Elizabeth began to fearnot that Bingley was indifferentbut that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away.
Really, Mr. Collins, cried Elizabeth with some warmth, you puzzle me exceedingly.
Mrs. Bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight.
I am astonished, my dear, said Mrs. Bennet, that you should be so ready to think your own children silly.
They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs. Bennet, in the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes, which the good humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hours visit, had revived.
His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same, said Elizabeth angrily; for I have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcys steward, and of that, I can assure you, he informed me himself.
The sisters, on hearing this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively they disliked being ill themselves; and then thought no more of the matter: and their indifference towards Jane when not immediately before them restored Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her former dislike.
Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
She was perfectly sensible that he never had; but she wished to see whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the Bingleys and Jane, and she thought he looked a little confused as he answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet Miss Bennet.
cried Elizabeth.
You began the evening well, Charlotte, said Mrs. Bennet with civil self-command to Miss Lucas.
When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and very unwillingly said so.
Elizabeth soon heard from her friend; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been; that it should be equally unreserved was impossible.
My dear Mr. Bennet, replied his wife, how can you be so tiresome!
True, said Mr. Bennet, but it is a comfort to think that whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will make the most of it.
A short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again: I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled.
It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been downstairs; but on this happy day she again took her seat at the head of her table, and in spirits oppressively high.
Oh, no! said Elizabeth.
This is the consequence, you see, Madam, of marrying a daughter, said Elizabeth.
Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard it in silent indignation.
Elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes.
Elizabeth hoped she had silenced him; but he soon afterwards said: I was surprised to see Darcy in town last month.
That would be a good scheme, said Elizabeth, if you were sure that they would not offer to send her home.
Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.
Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was determined to go to her, though the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no horsewoman, walking was her only alternative.
He was received by Mrs. Bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed, especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of her curtsey and address to his friend.
The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that she could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him further, and he continued:
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet.
Darcy took up a book; Miss Bingley did the same; and Mrs. Hurst, principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings, joined now and then in her brothers conversation with Miss Bennet.
Elizabeth again, and more seriously assured her of its truth.
Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most delightful friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked herself.
, I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please on Mr. Bennets manor.
Elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation.
Elizabeth smiled.
Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening Mrs. Bennets invention was again at work to get every body away from him and her daughter.
When the tea-things were removed, and the card-tables placed, the ladies all rose, and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him, when all her views were overthrown by seeing him fall a victim to her mothers rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the party.
Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame.
Mr. Bennets emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and more foolish than his daughter!
At five oclock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner.
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round the other table and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin Elizabeth and Mrs. Phillips.
Their arrival was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets, and Jane more especially, who gave Lydia the feelings which would have attended herself, had she been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what her sister must endure.
With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest curiosity, Elizabeth opened the letter, and, to her still increasing wonder, perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter-paper, written quite through, in a very close hand.
They were soon gone again, rising from their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mrs. Bennets civilities.
Mary and Kitty were both with Mrs. Bennet: one communication would, therefore, do for all.
I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remarkably well when she came into the room this morning.
Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend it.
Mrs. Bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner, and then added: May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left Mr. and Mrs. Collins well.
Elizabeth, equally next to Jane in birth and beauty, succeeded her of course.
Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them.
Elizabeth added privately, And how much I shall have to conceal!
The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mrs. Bennet had time to tell him of their having seen his aunt, of which her daughter sat in momentary dread, Bingley, who wanted to be alone with Jane, proposed their all walking out.
exclaimed Elizabeth, you are too good.
When they repaired to the dining-room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take the place, which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by her sister.
35 Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed her eyes.
to Miss Lydia Bennet, without there being a syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything.
But Elizabeth, who had not the least inclination to remain with them, laughingly answered: No, no; stay where you are.
Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Phillips, and she ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her neighbours in Meryton.
Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will be delighted with her.
Elizabeth could not but be pleased, could not but triumph.
When breakfast was over they were joined by the sisters; and Elizabeth began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and solicitude they showed for Jane.
Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
As they drove to Mr. Gardiners door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival; when they entered the passage she was there to welcome them, and Elizabeth, looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever.
Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could; said that she had liked him better when they had met in Kent than before, and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.
The happiness anticipated by Catherine and Lydia depended less on any single event, or any particular person, for though they each, like Elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham, he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball was, at any rate, a ball.
I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth, said her uncle, as they drove from the town; and really, upon serious consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does on the matter.
Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the principal object.
Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look, which showed her better satisfied with their visitors, than Elizabeth.
After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm by a lively Scotch air; and soon afterwards Mr. Darcy, drawing near Elizabeth, said to her:
Here, Sarah, come to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown.
Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
It was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency of which Elizabeth gave Charlotte all the credit.
The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave Elizabeth much attention for any of these new friends; and she could do nothing but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. Darcys civility, and, above all, of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister.
Mr. Bennets expectations were fully answered.
An excellent consolation in its way, said Elizabeth, but it will not do for us.
Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with indignation.
Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed out of spirits, and immediately accounting for it by herself, by supposing that she did not like to go home again so soon, she added:
They found Mr. Bennet still up.
Elizabeth listened with delight to the happy, though modest hopes which Jane entertained of Mr. Bingleys regard, and said all in her power to heighten her confidence in it.
They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner, after general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told her that he meant to be in London the very next day, and would assist Mr. Bennet in every endeavour for recovering Lydia.
The pause was to Elizabeths feelings dreadful.
thought Elizabeth.
Though Darcy could never receive him at Pemberley, yet, for Elizabeths sake, he assisted him further in his profession.
repeated Mr. Bennet.
As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied she understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered: I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her family.
Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunctionand
I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail.
In a doleful voice Mrs. Bennet began the projected conversation: Oh!
Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited for an answer.
By Elizabeths instructions, she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
Then turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon.
This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted: and Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself, soon went away.
Elizabeth silently attended her.
Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh, said Elizabeth.
Miss Bennet, I insist on being satisfied.
An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth.
He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book.
And of your infliction, cried Elizabeth with energy.
Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence would give pleasure; and instantly embracing her, acknowledged, with the liveliest emotion, that she was the happiest creature in the world.
Mr. Gardiner declared his willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
As Mrs. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she and the children should go to London, at the same time that Mr. Bennet came from it.
The rapture of Lydia on this occasion, her adoration of Mrs. Forster, the delight of Mrs. Bennet, and the mortification of Kitty, are scarcely to be described.
From that moment I observed my friends behaviour attentively; and I could then perceive that his partiality for Miss Bennet was beyond what I had ever witnessed in him.
Elizabeth made no objection; the door was then allowed to be shut, and the carriage drove off.
Jane, cried Elizabeth, was there a servant belonging to it who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?
I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you, said he, that a ball of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially, a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right cause, and not to any disrespect for her.
cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some conversation with his guest, and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to shine, by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness.
As soon as they entered the copse, Lady Catherine began in the following manner: You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand the reason of my journey hither.
By Jane, this attention was received with the greatest pleasure, but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment of everybody, hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them; though their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value as arising in all probability from the influence of their brothers admiration.
In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make her resigned.
He addressed himself to Miss Bennet, with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst also made her a slight bow, and said he was very glad; but diffuseness and warmth remained for Bingleys salutation.
but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth!
Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself.
Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia.
Mrs. Bennet was quite in the fidgets.
That is all very proper and civil, I am sure, said Mrs. Bennet, and I dare say she is a very agreeable woman.
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and that she could not leave her.
cried Elizabeth, darting from her seat as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door it was opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared.
Its effect was most extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable.
It originated in Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found Elizabeths arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred her husbands.
Elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.