Dorian drew himself up with an effort and smiled.
"Isn't it, Mr. Gray?
"Before which Dorian?
Your rank and wealth, Harry; my brains, such as they are my art, whatever it may be worth; Dorian Gray's good looks we shall all suffer for what the gods have given us, suffer terribly."
"Never marry at all, Dorian.
"I am so glad I have found you, Dorian," he said gravely.
Dorian Gray drew a long breath.
But here is Dorian himself.
Lord Henry smiled and looked at Dorian Gray. "
Deny them, Dorian, deny them!
"It is not much to ask of you, Dorian, and it is entirely for your own sake that I am speaking.
I want you to explain to me why you won't exhibit Dorian Gray's picture.
"People like you the wilful sunbeams of life don't commit crimes, Dorian.
He felt that the eyes of Dorian Gray were fixed on him, and the consciousness that amongst his audience there was one whose temperament he wished to fascinate seemed to give his wit keenness and to lend colour to his imagination.
"What nonsense, Dorian!" laughed his companion, and as the hare bounded into the thicket, he fired.
Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain.
Dorian's arms fell to his side.
"I have no doubt it was not an accident, Dorian, though it must be put in that way to the public.
"I don't know that I shall tell you that, Mr. Gray.
I wish I could change places with you, Dorian.
And now good-bye, Dorian.
As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into the greenroom.
"Don't know who he is?" said Dorian, listlessly.
"Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means," laughed Dorian.
Dorian," said Lord Henry, "I had better tell them that the shooting is stopped for to-day.
After two or three minutes of terrible silence, Dorian turned round and came and stood behind him, putting his hand upon his shoulder.
"Each of us has heaven and hell in him, Basil," cried Dorian with a wild gesture of despair.
There is nothing that art cannot express, and I know that the work I have done, since I met Dorian Gray, is good work, is the best work of my life.
Dorian looked at him for a moment.
I turned half-way round and saw Dorian Gray for the first time.
"I have heard all about it, Mr. Gray," she answered.
"Dorian," she answered, lingering over his name with long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to the red petals of her mouth.
But suddenly people remarked that they scarcely spoke when they met and that Campbell seemed always to go away early from any party at which Dorian Gray was present.
"This is," interrupted Dorian.
"I was very fond of Basil," said Dorian with a note of sadness in his voice. "
" Dorian shook his head.
"I am glad you appreciate my work at last, Dorian," said the painter coldly when he had recovered from his surprise.
He was an extremely clever young man, though he had no real appreciation of the visible arts, and whatever little sense of the beauty of poetry he possessed he had gained entirely from Dorian.
"What o'clock is it, Victor?" asked Dorian Gray drowsily. "
You have a wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray.
By the way, Dorian, you ran off very early last night.
He opened it and found it was from Dorian Gray.
my maid does that already, Mr. Gray, when she is annoyed with me."
"You are not serious, Dorian?" she murmured.
A week later Dorian Gray was sitting in the conservatory at Selby Royal, talking to the pretty Duchess of Monmouth, who with her husband, a jaded-looking man of sixty, was amongst his guests.
It was so unlike Dorian to speak like that.
Dorian Gray went back to his seat.
"Because I have loved so many of them, Dorian."
When Dorian had finished the letter, he felt that he had been forgiven.
And now, Dorian, get up on the platform, and don't move about too much, or pay any attention to what Lord Henry says.
The elaborate character of the frame had made the picture extremely bulky, and now and then, in spite of the obsequious protests of Mr. Hubbard, who had the true tradesman's spirited dislike of seeing a gentleman doing anything useful, Dorian put his hand to it so as to help them.
"I wonder is that really so, Harry?" said Dorian Gray, putting some perfume on his handkerchief out of a large, gold-topped bottle that stood on the table.
"I am in Lady Agatha's black books at present," answered Dorian with a funny look of penitence.
In fact, it was music that had first brought him and Dorian Gray together music and that indefinable attraction that Dorian seemed to be able to exercise whenever he wished and, indeed, exercised often without being conscious of it.
Don't keep Dorian too long.
"To see my soul!" muttered Dorian Gray, starting up from the sofa and turning almost white from fear. "Yes," answered Hallward gravely, and with deep-toned sorrow in his voice, "to see your soul.
"She is quite beautiful, Dorian," he said, "but she can't act.
"With their ages, Lady Narborough?" asked Dorian.
" exclaimed Dorian Gray, a strange sense of terror creeping over him.
"But, my dear Dorian " "Yes, Harry, I know what you are going to say.
Dorian put the letter into his pocket.
Hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed Dorian into the library.
"Dorian Gray is engaged to be married," said Lord Henry, watching him as he spoke.
Dorian Gray glanced at the picture, and suddenly an uncontrollable feeling of hatred for Basil Hallward came over him, as though it had been suggested to him by the image on the canvas, whispered into his ear by those grinning lips.
"Dorian is far too wise not to do foolish things now
Dorian, if I told you, you might like me less than you do, and you would certainly laugh at me.
"All right, Dorian.
As they entered the studio, Dorian Gray put his hand upon Lord Henry's arm.
Dorian shook his head, and a look of annoyance passed over his face at the mention of the word "inquest.
"You really must not say things like that before Dorian, Harry."
Mr. Dorian Gray?
Dorian shook his head.
"By the way, Dorian," he said after a pause, "'what does it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose how does the quotation run?
But you, Dorian, with your pure, bright, innocent face, and your marvellous untroubled youth I can't believe anything against you.
You have annoyed Dorian.
Play me a nocturne, Dorian, and, as you play, tell me, in a low voice, how you have kept your youth.
Dorian, you mustn't let this thing get on your nerves.
" Dorian shrugged his shoulders.
"You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can't you?"
"With an actress," said Dorian Gray, blushing.
"Years ago, when I was a boy," said Dorian Gray, crushing the flower in his hand, "you met me, flattered me, and taught me to be vain of my good looks.
"Where I heard the name of Dorian Gray."
As the door closed, Dorian put the key in his pocket and looked round the room.
Dorian, if it would please you.
You, Mr. Gray, you yourself, with your rose-red youth and your rose-white boyhood, you have had passions that have made you afraid, thoughts that have filled you with terror, day-dreams and sleeping dreams whose mere memory might stain your cheek with shame " "Stop!"
"No, of course not," cried Dorian. "
If Dorian Gray's life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than yourself.
"I don't feel up to it," said Dorian listlessly.
"I shall stay with the real Dorian," he said, sadly.
"Don't go to the theatre to-night, Dorian," said Hallward.
In less than a quarter of an hour, Dorian Gray was galloping down the long avenue as hard as he could go.
Women who had wildly adored him, and for his sake had braved all social censure and set convention at defiance, were seen to grow pallid with shame or horror if Dorian Gray entered the room.
Dorian, from the moment I met you, your personality had the most extraordinary influence over me.
What had Dorian Gray to do with Sibyl Vane's death?
Dorian Gray is my dearest friend," he said.
As they entered they saw Dorian Gray.
You must not be angry with me, Dorian, for what I have told you.
Dorian says she is beautiful, and he is not often wrong about things of that kind.
Dorian started.
So sorry I am late, Dorian.
When they reached the top landing, Dorian took out the key and turned it in the lock.
"I forget," said Dorian.
"Don't speak about those days, Dorian they are dead."
Dorian's whims are laws to everybody, except himself."
Dorian Gray had not killed her.
It is not in you, Dorian, to commit a murder.
The same look of pity came into Dorian Gray's eyes.
My dear Dorian," answered Lord Henry, "you merely fainted.
I shall be here at eleven," said Dorian.
"Come, Mr. Gray, my hansom is outside, and I can drop you at your own place.
" Dorian did not answer for a few moments.
As the chime struck one, Campbell turned round, and looking at Dorian Gray, saw that his eyes were filled with tears.
"You will have tea, of course, Dorian?
"A very charming artistic basis for ethics, Dorian!
" Dorian Gray frowned and turned his head away.
Dorian sighed and lit a cigarette.
"Ah, Alan," murmured Dorian with a sigh, "I wish you had a thousandth part of the pity for me that I have for you."
"I wish it were fin du globe," said Dorian with a sigh.
Her white hands were moving daintily among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at something that Dorian had whispered to her.
Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian?
"I wish I could love," cried Dorian Gray with a deep note of pathos in his voice. "
Certainly with hideous iteration the bitten lips of Dorian Gray shaped and reshaped those subtle words that dealt with soul and sense, till he had found in them the full expression, as it were, of his mood, and justified, by intellectual approval,
Good-bye, Mr. Gray.
Dorian," said Lord Henry at last, as the chaud-froid was being handed round,
It was clear to him that the experimental method was the only method by which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the passions; and certainly Dorian Gray was a subject made to his hand, and seemed to promise rich and fruitful results.
"Don't pay any attention to him, Dorian," said the painter.
Dorian Gray turned slowly around and looked at him with tear-dimmed eyes.
No," said Dorian Gray, "there is nothing fearful about it.
There was something about Dorian that charmed everybody.
"Dorian Gray?
"You will write to me if you want anything, won't you?" said Dorian, after a pause.
Lord Henry went out to the garden and found Dorian Gray burying his face in the great cool lilac-blossoms, feverishly drinking in their perfume as if it had been wine.
"I hope not," said Dorian with a sad look in his eyes.
"You are too charming to go in for philanthropy, Mr. Gray far too charming.
But won't you miss your train?" said Dorian Gray languidly as he passed up the steps and opened the door with his latch-key.
"Safe from what, Dorian?
"Dear Lady Narborough," murmured Dorian, smiling, "I have not been in love for a whole week not, in fact, since Madame de Ferrol left town."
Lying back in the hansom, with his hat pulled over his forehead, Dorian Gray watched with listless eyes the sordid shame of the great city, and now
"I know what pleasure is," cried Dorian Gray.
It was the creation of such worlds as these that seemed to Dorian Gray to be the true object, or amongst the true objects, of life; and in his search for sensations that would be at once new and delightful, and possess that element of strangeness that is so essential to romance, he would often adopt certain modes of thought that he knew to be really alien to his nature, abandon himself to their subtle influences, and then, having, as it were, caught their colour and satisfied his intellectual curiosity, leave them with that curious indifference that is not incompatible with a real ardour of temperament, and that, indeed, according to certain modern psychologists, is often a condition of it.
Dorian Gray drew a long breath.
Men who talked grossly became silent when Dorian Gray entered the room.
Dorian Gray lifted his golden head from the pillow, and with pallid face and tear-stained eyes, looked at him as he walked over to the deal painting-table that was set beneath the high curtained window.
I have sorrows, Dorian, of my own, that even you know nothing of.
" Dorian shook his head.
"What do you say to that, Mr. Gray?"
Well, Dorian," he said at length, with a sad smile, "I won't speak to you again about this horrible thing, after to-day.
Dorian Gray smiled.
As the glass door closed behind Dorian, Lord Henry turned and looked at the duchess with his slumberous eyes.
"Do you think my nature so shallow?" cried Dorian Gray angrily. "
"Why have you stopped playing, Dorian?
"It is the real Dorian Gray that is all."
4 One afternoon, a month later, Dorian Gray was reclining in a luxurious arm-chair, in the little library of Lord Henry's house in Mayfair.
Not very good, Dorian.
Dorian Gray shook his head. "
Motionless, and as one in a dream, sat Dorian Gray, gazing at her.
"It should matter everything to you, Mr. Gray."
Dorian took the note up and read it carefully.
What you have to do is this " "Stop, Gray.
I have asked myself and Mr. Gray.
Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching.
Dorian Gray listened, open-eyed and wondering.
When the sound of their footsteps had died away, Dorian locked the door and put the key in his pocket.
"Life has everything in store for you, Dorian.
You have never been to any of my parties, have you, Mr. Gray?
Dorian Gray loathed him more than ever.
Dorian heaved a sigh, and Lord Henry strolled across the room and began to stroke the head of a curious Java parrot, a large, grey-plumaged bird with pink crest and tail, that was balancing itself upon a bamboo perch.
"How long Mr. Gray is!"
I tell you, Dorian, that it is on things like these that our lives depend.
it was Dorian Gray's own face that he was looking at!
"It is only the sacred things that are worth touching, Dorian," said Lord Henry, with a strange touch of pathos in his voice.
Dorian half opened the door.
For years, Dorian Gray could not free himself from the influence of this book.
I cannot forget that," said Dorian simply.
I don't want to see Dorian tied to some vile creature, who might degrade his nature and ruin his intellect."
Dorian said nothing, but rose from the table, and passing into the next room, sat down to the piano and let his fingers stray across the white and black ivory of the keys.
Dorian was sleeping quite peacefully, lying on his right side, with one hand underneath his cheek.
You have saved my life," said Dorian.
said with musical utterance, that Dorian Gray's soul had turned to this white girl and bowed in worship before her.