no doubt something, surely, under that, Jim bad or good.
Aye, but you see, returned Ben Gunn, I didn't mean giving me a gate to keep, and a suit of livery clothes, and such; that's not my mark, Jim.
Ah, there's Jim!
For my part, I must do my best to save this fellow's trebly worthless life; Jim, you get me a basin.
Hawkins, neither you nor I are much account at the shooting; we'll stand by to load and bear a hand.
Here, Jim here's a cur'osity for you, said Silver, and he tossed me the paper.
Dr. Livesey was by this time across the stockade and pretty near the cook, and I could hear the alteration in his voice as he said, Not Jim?
, Jim may come on board with us,
Now, Jim, you tell me true: that ain't Flint's ship?
Jim, he said, you're the only one here that's worth anything, and you know I've been always good to you.
Well, then, Hawkins, what in fortune were they after?
It never occurred to us to doubt Jim Hawkins, but we were alarmed for his safety.
And so, Jim, said the doctor, you have the thing that they were after, have you?
You just take my orders, Cap'n Hawkins, and we'll sail slap in and be done with it.
And when I say that it means a deal, Jim.
There's a breeze coming, Jim, said Silver, who had by this time adopted quite a friendly and familiar tone.
Now, Jim, she said, that key.
And here's what it come to, Jim, and it begun with chuck-farthen on the blessed grave-stones!
I'll chance it with the sperrits, Jim.
Jim, said Dr. Livesey, take a seat.
So, Jim, said the doctor sadly, here you are.
That was how it were, now, weren't it, Hawkins?
So the weeks passed on, till one fine day there came a letter addressed to Dr. Livesey, with this addition, To be opened, in the case of his absence, by Tom Redruth or young Hawkins.
19 Narrative Resumed by Jim Hawkins:
I reckon, he said at last, I reckon, Cap'n Hawkins, you'll kind of want to get ashore now.
The men are not shy with him, and Jim is a noticing lad.
As you will, Livesey, said the squire; Hawkins has earned better than cold pie.
You're a good lad, Jim, he said; and you're all in a clove hitch, ain't you?
And at the same time, I was wondering over poor Jim Hawkins' fate.
Now, then, if Jim is agreeable, we'll open the packet; and he laid it before him on the table.
Livesey, that must have been you or Hawkins, cried the squire.
Understand me, Jim, he said, returning.
Jim here, said the doctor, can help us more than anyone.
Jim him above all.
Come away, Hawkins, he would say; come and have a yarn with John.
Jim, says he, I reckon we're fouled, you and me, and we'll have to sign articles.
Now, Hawkins, said the squire, you have something to say.
And, Jim looking all round him and lowering his voice to a whisper I'm rich.
You needn't stand up for Mr. Hawkins; HE'LL excuse you, you may lay to that.
If I don't have a dram o' rum, Jim, I'll have the horrors; I seen some on 'em already.
She would not, she declared, lose money that belonged to her fatherless boy; If none of the rest of you dare, she said, Jim and I dare.
I says to myself, you stand by Hawkins, John, and Hawkins'll
Thank you, Jim, said he quite loudly, that was all I wanted to know, as if he had asked me a question.
Jim this here brandy's too strong for my head.
So, said he, here's Jim Hawkins, shiver my timbers!
Jim, he whispered, take that, and stand by for trouble.
, my blood'll be on you, Jim, and that doctor swab; and he ran on again for a while with curses.
This lad Hawkins is a trump, I perceive.
We can't help that, Jim, now.
Jim, how my fingers fidges, he continued in the pleading tone.
But, see here, Jim tit for tat you save Long John from swinging.
You came in in about the nick, I guess, for me and Hawkins.
Trelawney, said the doctor, I'll go with you; and I'll go bail for it, so will Jim, and be a credit to the undertaking.
On the top of that the three gentlemen went below, and not long after, word was sent forward that Jim Hawkins was wanted in the cabin.
And now you see, mate, I'm pretty low, and deserted by all; and Jim, you'll bring me one noggin of rum, now, won't you, matey?
oar saying, Is that you, Jim?
You'll make a famous cabin-boy, Hawkins.
Draw down the blind, Jim, whispered my mother; they might come and watch outside.
Thomas Redruth, owner's servant, landsman, shot by the mutineers; James Hawkins, cabin-boy  
Now, Hawkins, you do me justice with the cap'n.
; keep to your left hand, mate Jim!
The top of the morning to you, Jim.
Hawkins, will you ring that bell?
Now, I'll tell you, Hawkins, if you like, I'll take you along.
Hawkins, help yourself, and back to your post to eat it, continued Captain Smollett.
Jim and I shall stick together in the meanwhile; you'll take Joyce and Hunter when you ride to Bristol, and from first to last, not one of us must breathe a word of what we've found.
You're a good boy in your line, Jim, but I don't think you and me'll go to sea again.
Load his gun, Hawkins.
Now, Mrs. Hawkins, just you run upstairs to your husband and tell him, if possible, nothing about it.
Three, reckoned the captain; ourselves make seven, counting Hawkins here.
Jim, Jim, says he, quite pleased apparently.
Come in, Jim, said the captain.
And good evening to you, friend Jim.
Jim, he said, are you afraid of blood?
But you keep your weather-eye open, Jim, and I'll share with you equals, upon my honour.
Ah, said Silver, it were fortunate for me that I had Hawkins here.
Once I looked into that bay, Jim Hawkins, and seen no schooner
Hawkins, I put prodigious faith in you, added the squire.
Hawkins shall come as cabin-boy.
Let young Hawkins go at once to see his mother, with Redruth for a guard; and then both come full speed to Bristol.
Dr. Livesey take the north side, if you please; Jim, the east; Gray, west.
Jim, he went on, blinking.
And if them pirates camp ashore, Jim, what would you say
Jim, that's one to you.
Now, you see, Jim, so be as you ARE here, says he, I'll give you a piece of my mind.
And I step aside see here and leave you and Jim alone.
Jim Hawkins is gone, was my first thought.
Hawkins they live forever mostly; and if anybody's seen more wickedness, it must be the devil himself.
Well, now, Jim, I've lived that rough as you'd be ashamed to hear of.
Hawkins, will you give me your word of honour as a young gentleman for a young gentleman you are, although poor born your word of honour not to slip your cable?
what: I'll make a man of you, Jim.
Once we got the ship and treasure both and off to sea like jolly companions, why then we'll talk Mr. Hawkins over, we will, and we'll give him his share, to be sure, for all his kindness.
Jim, says he, rum; and as he spoke, he reeled a little, and caught himself with one hand against the wall.
It will amount to this: If we have the clue you talk about, I fit out a ship in Bristol dock, and take you and Hawkins here along, and I'll have that treasure if I search a year.
But the wind was wanting; and to complete our helplessness, down came Hunter with the news that Jim Hawkins had slipped into a boat and was gone ashore with the rest.
The very same Jim as ever was, says Silver.
A man who has been three years biting his nails on a desert island, Jim, can't expect to appear as sane as you or me.
And, Jim, if you was to see Silver, you wouldn't go for to sell Ben Gunn?
I reckon you can go, Jim.
Jim, Jim!
Squire, said he, when Dance has had his ale he must, of course, be off on his Majesty's service; but I mean to keep Jim Hawkins here to sleep at my house, and with your permission, I propose we should have up the cold pie and let him sup.
Jim, the doctor interrupted, and his voice was quite changed, Jim, I can't have this.
Hawkins hasn't had his breakfast.
If you like the service, well, you'll jine; and if you don't, Jim, why, you're free to answer no free and welcome, shipmate; and if fairer can be said by mortal seaman, shiver my sides!
he asked; and when I had refused: Well, I'll take a dram myself, Jim, said he.
she learned 'Pieces of eight,' and little wonder; three hundred and fifty thousand of 'em, Hawkins!
Now, look you here, Jim Hawkins, he said in a steady whisper that was no more than audible, you're within half a plank of death, and what's a long sight worse, of torture.
And so, Jim stopping the tobacco here you were, and quite a pleasant surprise for poor old John.
Ah, Jim, Jim, I reckon I've missed stays!
Take your hat, Hawkins, and we'll see the ship.
Well, Jim, says he, just see the good that comes of being dainty in your food.
First and last, we've split upon Jim Hawkins!
Just you mention them words to your squire, Jim, he went on.
And I ran to the door in time to see Jim Hawkins, safe and sound, come climbing over the stockade.
For mind you, it's serious, young Hawkins; and neither you nor me's come out of it with what I should make so bold as to call credit.
And now, Jim, we're to go in for this here treasure-hunting, with sealed orders too, and I don't like it; and you and me must stick close, back to back like, and we'll save our necks in spite o' fate and fortune.
And when Ben Gunn is wanted, you know where to find him, Jim.
And talking o' trouble, why did that doctor give me the chart, Jim?
Well, Jim, three years have I been here, and not a bite of Christian diet from that day to this.
Good-bye, Jim.
J. T. P.P.S. Hawkins may stay one night with his mother.
You and me should get on well, Hawkins, for I'll take my davy
Jim, I told him.
Jim, he said at length, you saw that seafaring man today?
Ah, Jim, you'll bless your stars, you will, you was the first that found me!
This was the first that Jim heard, the sound of the squire's shot not having reached him.
See here, now, Hawkins, said he, here's a blessed hard thing on a man like me, now, ain't it?
I'd have had you but for that there lurch, but I don't have no luck, not I; and I reckon I'll have to strike, which comes hard, you see, for a master mariner to a ship's younker like you, Jim.
As for you, Jim, he said, it went against my heart, but I did what I thought best for those who had stood by their duty; and if you were not one of these, whose fault was it?
I'll give you a golden guinea for a noggin, Jim.
And then, in his first gracious tones, he replied to me, Yesterday morning, Mr. Hawkins, said he, in the dog-watch, down came Doctor Livesey with a flag of truce.