Well, Aunt Polly she said that when Aunt Sally wrote to her that Tom and Sid had come all right and safe, she says to herself:
Tom thought a minute or two, and says: It's a good idea.
We went to a clump of bushes, and Tom made everybody swear to keep the secret, and then showed them a hole in the hill, right in the thickest part of the bushes.
Well, all right, Tom, fix it your own way; but if you'll take my advice, you'll let me borrow a sheet off of the clothesline.
Then Tom marked out them things on it with the nail, and set Jim to work on them, with the nail for a chisel and an iron bolt from the rubbage in the lean to for a hammer, and told him to work till the rest of his candle quit on him, and then he could go to bed, and hide the grindstone under his straw tick and sleep on it.
There was a considerable good deal of talk all the afternoon, and me and Tom was on the lookout all the time; but it warn't
Tom Sawyer was easy and comfortable, and it stayed easy and comfortable till by and by I hear a steamboat coughing along down the river.
Tom said that what he meant was, we could steal anything we needed.
Keep what, Mars Tom?
Tom Sawyer called the hogs ingots, and he called the turnips and stuff julery, and we would go to the cave and powwow over what we had done, and how many people we had killed and marked.
Next morning I heard Tom was a good deal better, and they said Aunt Sally was gone to get a nap.
Why, I got plenty spring water, Mars Tom.
only Tom.
Tom says: It's as simple as tit tat toe, three in a row, and as easy as playing hooky.
She flung herself at Tom, crying, and says:
But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in there and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay.
Tom says, in a puzzled up kind of way:
Tom jerked the door open and flung out a slab of Jim's meat, and the dogs went for it, and in two seconds he was out himself and back again and shut the door, and I knowed he'd fixed the other door too.
Next night we stuck a picture, which Tom drawed in blood, of a skull and crossbones on the front door; and next night
Shucks, Tom
I've knowed him all his life, and so has Tom, there.
It was Tom Sawyer on a mattress; and that old doctor; and Jim, in her calico dress, with his hands tied behind him; and a lot of people.
Tom says it wasn't enough; but I said nobody wouldn't ever see the plates that Jim throwed out, because they'd fall in the dog fennel and jimpson weeds under the window hole
out through the hole, swift but soft Jim first, me next, and Tom last, which was according to Tom's orders.
Oh, that's all very fine to say, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation are these fellows going to be ransomed if we don't know how to do it to them?
free me and Tom.
Tom he made a sign to me kind of a little noise with his mouth
So then I judged that all that stuff was only just one of Tom Sawyer's lies.
Children, it's your cousin Tom!
Then I says to myself, s'pose Tom Sawyer comes down on that boat?
Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing would do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands and knees, and play something on him.
I reckon I knowed that, Tom says, but you bet he'll have one before he goes out of this because he's going out right, and there ain't going to be no flaws in his record.
It was the most undigestible sawdust I ever see; and Tom said the same.
Tom says:
How long will it take, Tom?
We was all glad as we could be, but Tom was the gladdest of all because he had a bullet in the calf of his leg.
I would if I was you, Tom.
But Tom says:
At last I says: This ain't no thirty seven year job; this is a thirty eight year job, Tom Sawyer.
So Tom he wrote the nonnamous letter, and I smouched the yaller wench's frock that night, and put it on, and shoved it under the front door, the way Tom told me to.
So Tom says: What's the vittles for?
and as for that sheet they made the rag ladder out of, ther' ain't no telling how many times they didn't steal that; and flour, and candles, and candlesticks, and spoons, and the old warming pan, and most a thousand things that I disremember now, and my new calico dress; and me and Silas and my Sid and Tom on the constant watch day and night, as I was a telling you, and not a one of us could catch hide nor hair nor sight nor sound of them; and here at the last minute, lo and behold you, they slides right in under our noses and fools us, and not only fools us but the Injun Territory robbers too, and actuly gets away with that nigger safe and sound, and that with sixteen men and twenty two dogs right on their very heels at that very time!
Laws knows I wanted to go bad enough to see about Tom, and was all intending to go; but after that I wouldn't a went, not for kingdoms.
Tom said so himself.
I didn't see no di'monds, and I told Tom Sawyer so.
De goodness gracious alive, Mars Tom!
Tom's voice trembled whilst he was reading them, and he most broke down.
I'll get down there, too, if I swim; and we'll take and tie him, and keep him, and shove out down the river; and when Tom's done with him we'll give him what it's worth, or all we got, and then let him get ashore.
She told about me and Tom Sawyer finding the six thousand dollars (only she got it ten) and all about pap and what a hard lot he was, and what a hard lot I was, and at last she got down to where I was murdered.
and I'm bound to say Tom Sawyer fell considerable in my estimation.
Pretty soon Tom says:
Why, Tom, we can pull a feather out of a goose and make him a better one; and quicker, too.
And Tom he turned his head a little, and muttered something or other, which showed he warn't
And I peeped out, and in a little while Tom's Aunt Polly shook herself loose and stood there looking across at Tom over her spectacles kind of grinding him into the earth, you know.
Now the way that the book winds up is this: Tom and me found the money that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich.
Tom private
No, he hain't, Tom says; it's all there yet
ain' dat Misto Tom?
Do you reckon Tom Sawyer would ever go by this thing?
Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull.
But Tom said he would let me help him do it.
stealing cattle and such things ain't robbery; it's burglary, says Tom Sawyer.
My heart fell down amongst my lungs and livers and things, and a hard piece of corn crust started down my throat after it and got met on the road with a cough, and was shot across the table, and took one of the children in the eye and curled him up like a fishing worm, and let a cry out of him the size of a warwhoop, and Tom he turned kinder blue around the gills, and it all amounted to a considerable state of things for about a quarter of a minute or as much as that, and I would a sold out for half price if there was a bidder.
So Tom's Aunt Polly, she told all about who I was, and what; and I had to up and tell how I was in such a tight place that when Mrs. Phelps took me for Tom Sawyer she chipped in and says, Oh, go on and call me Aunt Sally, I'm used to it now, and 'tain't
Why, Tom Sawyer, how you talk, I says; Jim ain't got no use for a rope ladder.
Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath, and asked Tom if he got it out of his own head.
Tom and me was to sleep in the same room and bed; so, being tired, we bid good night and went up to bed right after supper, and clumb out of the window and down the lightning rod, and shoved for the town; for I didn't believe anybody was going to give the king and the duke a hint, and so if I didn't hurry up and give them one they'd get into trouble sure.
Is it Bill, or Tom, or Bob?
Tom he went down the lightning rod to spy around; and the nigger at the back door was asleep, and he stuck it in the back of his neck and come back.
you only have to pull a buckskin latch string, they don't fasten the doors but that warn't romantical enough for Tom Sawyer; no way would do him but he must climb up the lightning rod.
Polly Tom's Aunt Polly, she is and Mary, and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book, which is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as I said before.
Tom says, dropping his smile and looking surprised.
So we crept to the door, and Tom stopped us there and put his eye to the crack, but couldn't make out nothing, it was so dark; and whispered and said he would listen for the steps to get further, and when he nudged us
Why, Mars Tom, I doan' want no sich glory.
Pap, and Judge Thatcher, and Bessie Thatcher, and Jo Harper, and Tom Sawyer, and his old Aunt Polly, and Sid and Mary, and plenty more.
Well, one thing was dead sure, and that was that Tom Sawyer was in earnest, and was actuly going to help steal that nigger out of slavery.
So Tom he thanked them very hearty and handsome, and let himself be persuaded, and come in; and when he was in he said he was a stranger from Hicksville, Ohio, and his name was William Thompson
In about half an hour Tom's wagon drove up to the front stile, and Aunt Sally she see it through the window, because it was only about fifty yards, and says:
Bob's been carved up some with a bowie, and Tom's been hurt once or twice.
Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up
And then Tom he talked along and talked along, and says, le's all three slide out of here one of these nights and get an outfit, and go for howling adventures amongst the Injuns, over in the Territory, for a couple of weeks or two;
When he had ciphered it out he told me how we was to do; then we went and waited around the spoon basket till we see Aunt Sally coming, and then Tom went to counting the spoons and laying them out to one side, and I slid one of them up my sleeve, and Tom says:
Tom looks at me very grave, and says: Tom, didn't you just tell me he was all right?
Tom said he was right behind Jim's bed now, and we'd dig in under it, and when we got through there
Well, then, what we going to do, Tom? I'll tell you.
I knowed he was white inside, and I reckoned he'd say what he did say so it was all right now, and I told Tom
So then we went away and went to the rubbage pile in the back yard, where they keep the old boots, and rags, and pieces of bottles, and wore out tin things, and all such truck, and scratched around and found an old tin washpan, and stopped up the holes as well as we could, to bake the pie in, and took it down cellar and stole it full of flour and started for breakfast, and found a couple of shingle nails that Tom said would be handy for a prisoner to scrabble his name and sorrows on the dungeon walls with, and dropped one of them in Aunt Sally's apron pocket which was hanging on a chair, and t'other we stuck in the band of Uncle Silas's hat, which was on the bureau, because we heard the children say their pa and ma was going to the runaway nigger's house this morning, and then went to breakfast, and Tom dropped the pewter spoon in Uncle Silas's coat pocket, and Aunt Sally wasn't come yet, so we had to wait a little while.
Why, that ain't Tom, it's Sid;
Next day Tom stole a pewter spoon and a brass candlestick in the house, for to make some pens for Jim out of, and six tallow candles; and I hung around the nigger cabins and laid for a chance, and stole three tin plates.
Tom said he slipped Jim's hat off of his head and hung it on a limb right over him, and Jim stirred a little, but he didn't wake.
Why, Tom, that 'll make trouble next morning; because, of course, she prob'bly hain't got any but that one.
Why, Mars Tom, I doan' want no rats.
But Tom, he was so proud and joyful, he just couldn't hold in, and his tongue just went it she a chipping in, and spitting fire all along, and both of them going it at once, like a cat convention; and she says:
So the thing was working very well, Tom said; he said he never see a thing work more satisfactory.
In the morning we went out to the woodpile and chopped up the brass candlestick into handy sizes, and Tom put them and the pewter spoon in his pocket.
Jim said he would jis' 's soon have tobacker in his coffee; and found so much fault with it, and with the work and bother of raising the mullen, and jews harping the rats, and petting and flattering up the snakes and spiders and things, on top of all the other work he had to do on pens, and inscriptions, and journals, and things, which made it more trouble and worry and responsibility to be a prisoner than anything he ever undertook, that Tom most lost all patience with him; and said he was just loadened down with more gaudier chances than a prisoner ever had in the world to make a name for himself, and yet he didn't know enough to appreciate them, and they was just about wasted on him.
no need to change that when Aunt Sally took me for Tom Sawyer I had to stand it there
Well, when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked away down into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling, where there was sick folks, maybe; and the stars over us was sparkling ever so fine; and down by the village was the river, a whole mile broad, and awful still and grand.
Jim said it would take him a year to scrabble such a lot of truck on to the logs with a nail, and he didn't know how to make letters, besides; but Tom said he would block them out for him, and then he wouldn't have nothing to do but just follow the lines.
Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote it in.
But Tom said all women was just so.
Tom see him do it, and remembered about the spoon, and says:
Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon ducked under a wall where you wouldn't a noticed that there was a hole.
Tom, I want to know what you been doing down there.
Yes, dey will, I reck'n, Mars Tom, but what kine er time is
Tom give him a dime, and said we wouldn't tell nobody; and told him to buy some more thread to tie up his wool with; and then looks at Jim, and says: I wonder if Uncle Silas is going to hang this nigger.
He says: Why, Tom!
Confound it, it's foolish, Tom.
It was most pesky tedious hard work and slow, and didn't give my hands no show to get well of the sores, and we didn't seem to make no headway, hardly; so Tom says: I know how to fix it.
I see a wagon coming, and sure enough it was Tom Sawyer, and I stopped and waited till he come along.
I says; your head gets leveler and leveler all the time, Tom Sawyer, I says.
He said Tom Sawyer couldn't get up no better plan than what I had.
But she was on my mind and Tom was on my mind,
We was very well satisfied with this business, and Tom allowed it was worth twice the trouble it took, because he said now she couldn't ever count them spoons twice alike again to save her life; and wouldn't believe she'd counted them right if she did; and said that after she'd about counted her head off for the next three days he judged she'd give it up and offer to kill anybody that wanted her to ever count them any more.
When we was ten foot off Tom whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun.
Tom's Tom's why, where is Tom?
Tom, if it ain't unregular and irreligious to sejest it, I says, there's an old rusty saw blade around yonder sticking under the weather boarding behind the smoke house.
But Tom thought of something, and says: You got any spiders in here, Jim?
Tom Sawyer he says the same.
So whilst me and Jim filed away at the pens on a brickbat apiece, Jim a making his'n out of the brass and I making mine out of the spoon, Tom set to work to think out the coat of arms.
I was just a biling with curiosity; and I says to myself, Tom Sawyer wouldn't back out now, and
but maybe I could, Mars Tom; but it's tolable dark in heah, en
Please, Mars Tom doan' talk so!
IT would be most an hour yet till breakfast, so we left and struck down into the woods; because Tom said we got to have some light to see how to dig by, and a lantern makes too much, and might get us into trouble; what we must have was a lot of them rotten chunks that's called fox fire, and just makes a soft kind of a glow when you lay them in a dark place.
So Tom was satisfied.
says Tom Sawyer.
Tom had his store clothes on, and an audience and that was always nuts for Tom Sawyer.
We fetched an armful and hid it in the weeds, and set down to rest, and Tom says, kind of dissatisfied:
Tom waited to think it over, and see if there wasn't nothing else; and pretty soon he says: Oh, there's one thing I forgot.
Tom he took a look back over his shoulder, and says, Too late he's out of sight.
Then he looks on around the same way to me, and says: Tom, didn't you think Aunt Sally 'd open out her arms and say, 'Sid Sawyer ' My land!
Bob, if you and Tom are ready, take your places.
On the road Tom he told me all about how it was reckoned I was murdered, and how pap disappeared pretty soon, and didn't come back no more, and what a stir there was when Jim run away; and I told Tom all about our Royal Nonesuch rapscallions, and as much of the raft voyage as I had time to; and as we struck into the town and up through the the middle of it it was as much as half after eight, then here comes a raging rush of people with torches, and an awful whooping and yelling, and banging tin pans and blowing horns; and we jumped to one side to let them go by; and as they went by
But at supper, at night, one of the little boys says: Pa, mayn't Tom and Sid and me go to the show?
She'll die on my han's, Mars Tom, she sholy will; kase I doan' skasely ever cry.
He come back about ten a little bit uneasy; hadn't run across Tom's track.
So Tom was stumped.
Then Tom said he hadn't got candles enough, and he would slip in the kitchen and get some more.
And we had him up to the sick room, and had a high talk; and Tom give Jim forty dollars for being prisoner for us so patient, and doing it up so good, and Jim was pleased most to death, and busted out, and says: Dah, now,
but I begged and begged, and at the last minute she let me come, too; so, coming down the river, me and Tom thought it would be a first rate surprise for him to come here to the house first, and for me to by and by tag along and drop in, and let on to be a stranger.
Nobody could spread himself like Tom Sawyer in such a thing as that.
So he set his ear to the crack and listened, and listened, and listened, and the steps a scraping around out there all the time; and at last he nudged us, and we slid out, and stooped down, not breathing, and not making the least noise, and slipped stealthy towards the fence in Injun file, and got to it all right, and me and Jim over it; but Tom's britches catched fast on a splinter on the top rail, and then he hear the steps coming, so he had to pull loose, which snapped the splinter and made a noise; and as he dropped in our tracks and started somebody sings out:
 I. YOU don't know about me without you have read a book by the name of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer; but that ain't no matter.
Tom was joyful.
If I had Tom Sawyer's head I wouldn't trade it off to be a duke, nor mate of a steamboat, nor clown in a circus, nor nothing I can think of.
So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on, and read it.
Tom was in high spirits.
Then we went to the nigger cabins, and while I got Nat's notice off, Tom shoved a piece of candlestick into the middle of a corn pone that was in Jim's pan, and we went along with Nat to see how it would work, and it just worked noble; when Jim bit into it it most mashed all his teeth out; and there warn't
Tom's most well now, and got his bullet around his neck on a watch guard for a watch, and is always seeing what time it is, and so there ain't nothing more to write about, and I am rotten glad of it, because if I'd a knowed
Well, as I was saying, we waited that morning till everybody was settled down to business, and nobody in sight around the yard; then Tom he carried the sack into the lean to whilst
I reckoned Tom Sawyer couldn't a done it no neater himself.
THE old man was uptown again before breakfast, but couldn't get no track of Tom; and both of them set at the table thinking, and not saying nothing, and looking mournful, and their coffee getting cold, and not eating anything.
Once I said to myself it would be a thousand times better for Jim to be a slave at home where his family was, as long as he'd got to be a slave, and so I'd better write a letter to Tom Sawyer and tell him to tell Miss Watson where he was.
Is dat like Mars Tom Sawyer?
Well, thinks I, that looks powerful bad for Tom, and I'll dig out for the island right off.
So he raised up his bed and slid the chain off of the bed leg, and wrapt it round and round his neck, and we crawled out through our hole and down there, and Jim and me laid into that grindstone and walked her along like nothing; and Tom superintended.
Rouse out Bob and Tom, some of you, and fetch the guns.
But looky here, Tom, what do we want to warn anybody for that something's up?
They agreed to get together and fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected Tom Sawyer first captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang, and so started home.
They all asked me questions, and I told them how pap and me and all the family was living on a little farm down at the bottom of Arkansaw, and my sister Mary Ann run off and got married and never was heard of no more, and Bill went to hunt them and he warn't heard of no more, and Tom and Mort died, and then there warn't
I did wish Tom Sawyer was there; I knowed he would take an interest in this kind of business, and throw in the fancy touches.
And when she was going away she looked down in my eyes so steady and gentle, and says: The door ain't going to be locked, Tom, and there's the window and the rod; but you'll be good, won't you?
But Tom he showed him how unregular it would be, and set down and told him all about our plans, and how we could alter them in a minute any time there was an alarm; and not to be the least afraid, because we would see he got away, sure.
Tom, they made a heap of fuss over him, and fixed him up prime, and give him all he wanted to eat, and a good time, and nothing to do.
WE was feeling pretty good after breakfast, and took my canoe and went over the river a fishing, with a lunch, and had a good time, and took a look at the raft and found her all right, and got home late to supper, and found them in such a sweat and worry they didn't know which end they was standing on, and made us go right off to bed the minute we was done supper, and wouldn't tell us what the trouble was, and never let on a word about the new letter, but didn't need to, because we knowed as much about it as anybody did, and as soon as we was half up stairs and her back was turned we slid for the cellar cupboard and loaded up a good lunch and took it up to our room and went to bed, and got up about half past eleven, and Tom put on Aunt Sally's dress that he stole and was going to start with the lunch, but says: Where's the butter?
So Tom turns to the nigger, which was looking wild and distressed, and says, kind of severe:
It ain't no crime in a prisoner to steal the thing he needs to get away with, Tom said; it's his right; and
betwixt me and Tom.
I k'n stan' dem, Mars Tom, but blame' '
One time Tom sent a boy to run about town with a blazing stick, which he called a slogan (which was the sign for the Gang to get together), and then he said he had got secret news by his spies that next day a whole parcel of Spanish merchants and rich A rabs was going to camp in Cave Hollow with two hundred elephants, and six hundred camels, and over a thousand sumter mules, all loaded down with di'monds, and they didn't have only a guard of four hundred soldiers, and so we would lay in ambuscade, as he called it, and kill the lot and scoop the things.
So Tom said, now for the nonnamous letters.
Then I slipped down to the ground and crawled in among the trees, and, sure enough, there was Tom Sawyer waiting for me.
Then Tom and Bob went to the sideboard where the decanter was, and mixed a glass of bitters and handed it to him, and he held it in his hand and waited till Tom's and Bob's was mixed, and then they bowed and said, Our duty to you, sir, and madam; and they bowed the least bit in the world and said thank you, and so they drank, all three, and Bob and Tom poured a spoonful of water on the sugar and the mite of whisky or apple brandy in the bottom of their tumblers, and give it to me and Buck, and we drank to the old people too.
Jim he couldn't see no sense in the most of it, but he allowed we was white folks and knowed better than him; so he was satisfied, and said he would do it all just as Tom said.
Aunt Polly she turns around slow and severe, and says: You, Tom!
Tom said she was going to get one of us, sure, before we got through.
By and by Tom says: Looky here, Huck
Why, Mars Tom, I hain't got no coat o' arm; I hain't got nuffn but dish yer ole shirt,
But he had to have it; Tom said he'd got to; there warn't