Not that Matthew complained, to be sure; he listened to it all with a wordless smile of enjoyment on his face; Marilla permitted the chatter until she found herself becoming too interested in it, whereupon she always promptly quenched Anne by a curt command to hold her tongue.
I was awfully near giving up in despair, explained Anne.
She was secretly vastly pleased at Annes impulsive caress, which was probably the reason why she said brusquely:
Marilla lifted her worn face from her hands and looked at Anne.
Oh, Diana, whispered Anne, finding it necessary to lean up against a maple tree for support
Anne had gathered them and brought them to him, her anguished, tearless eyes burning in her white face.
Somehow Anne who did not notice the rather guilty little start of surprise the white-lace girl gave, and would not have understood the subtle compliment implied therein if she had got on her feet, and moved dizzily out to the front.
Ill try to be a model pupil, agreed Anne dolefully.
I am not coming back to school any more, said Anne.
sighed Anne, when it was all over and she and Diana were walking home together under a dark, starry sky.
Anne, you do beat all!
Then the tears came and Anne wept her heart out.
Matthew would have thought anyone who praised Anne was all right.
Yes; but cakes have such a terrible habit of turning out bad just when you especially want them to be good, sighed Anne, setting a particularly well-balsamed twig afloat.
It was splendid, Anne related to Marilla later on.
Anne, are you killed?
Annes clipped head made a sensation in school on the following Monday, but to her relief nobody guessed the real reason for it, not even Josie Pye, who, however, did not fail to inform Anne that she looked like a perfect scarecrow.
Just as Anne emerged triumphantly from the cellar with her plateful of russets came the sound of flying footsteps on the icy board walk outside and the next moment the kitchen door was flung open and in rushed Diana Barry, white faced and breathless, with a shawl wrapped hastily around her head.
Anne suddenly came close to Marilla and slipped her hand into the older womans hard palm.
With Mrs. Allan Anne fell promptly and wholeheartedly in love.
Anne laughed and pelted Diana with the faded June lilies of her bouquet.
She determined to shroud her feelings in deepest oblivion, and it may be stated here and now that she did it, so successfully that Gilbert, who possibly was not quite so indifferent as he seemed, could not console himself with any belief that Anne felt his retaliatory scorn.
Ruby, you shouldnt talk about Mrs. Lynde, said Anne severely.
Then Anne looked at him with a vengeance!
Anne, do hold your tongue, said Marilla, thoroughly worn out trying to follow the gyrations of Annes thoughts.
Anne wept then, but later on, when she went upstairs and looked in the glass, she was calm with despair.
Marilla disengaged Annes clinging hands stonily.
Oh, Anne, what does it feel like to see your name at the head of a pass list like that?
I shall never forgive Gilbert Blythe, said Anne firmly.
Anne worked hard and steadily.
Oh, but its good to be alive and to be going home, breathed Anne.
Other people besides Anne thought so when they stumbled on it.
Anne and Diana walked home that evening feeling very sober indeed.
Anne had gone home in the wonderful, white-frosted winter morning, heavy eyed from loss of sleep, but still talking unweariedly to Matthew as they crossed the long white field and walked under the glittering fairy arch of the Lovers Lane maples.
Anne had her good day in the companionship of the outdoor world.
Oh yes, sighed Anne, blissfully unconscious of any sarcasm on Marillas part.
Youve done splendidly, Anne.
I must say Anne has turned out a real smart girl, admitted Mrs. Rachel, as Marilla accompanied her to the end of the lane at sunset.
They found Anne and Marilla distractedly trying to restore Matthew to consciousness.
Anne could run like a deer, however; run she did with the impish result that she overtook the boys at the door and was swept into the schoolhouse among them just as Mr. Phillips was in the act of hanging up his hat.
She was fairly dancing with rage, Anne.
But somehow I dont know how it is but when Anne and them are together, though she aint half as handsome, she makes them look kind of common and overdone something like them
Anne was trembling.
Anne sighed.
Youll just pamper Annes vanity, Matthew, and shes as vain as a peacock now.
Anne expanded like a flower under this wholesome influence and carried home to the admiring Matthew and the critical Marilla glowing accounts of schoolwork and aims.
Their sojourn in town was something that Anne and Diana dated from for years.
But he admired Anne immensely, and was puffed up with pride over the prospect of driving to White Sands with that slim, upright figure beside him.
Its extremely interesting, Anne told Marilla.
She was happy, eager, interested; there were lessons to be learned and honor to be won; delightful books to read; new pieces to be practiced for the Sunday-school choir; pleasant Saturday afternoons at the manse with Mrs. Allan; and then, almost before Anne realized it, spring had come again to Green Gables and all the world was abloom once more.
I think hes lovely, said Anne reproachfully.
Annes horizons had closed in since the night she had sat there after coming home from Queens; but if the path set before her feet was to be narrow
Anne, I dont know what else is to be done.
I dont see how Im going to eat breakfast, said Anne rapturously.
Anne was standing in the gable room, looking solemnly at three new dresses spread out on the bed.
Of course I wont, flashed Anne, with a momentary return of her old spirit.
Anne go to your room and stay there until I come up, said Marilla, recovering her powers of speech with difficulty.
asked Marilla, looking at Anne out of the corner of her eye.
she realized what Anne had come to mean to her.
protested Anne.
Ill write Tuesday night and tell you how the first day goes, promised Anne.
Anne drew a long breath of happiness as she sharpened her pencil and arranged her picture cards in her desk.
Wild horses wont drag the secret from me, promised Anne solemnly.
sobbed Anne.
arent becoming to me, began Anne.
And then the girls were around them and Anne was the center of a laughing, congratulating group.
IT was October again when Anne was ready to go back to school a glorious October, all red and gold, with mellow mornings when the valleys were filled with delicate mists as if the spirit of autumn had poured them in for the sun to drain amethyst, pearl, silver, rose, and smoke-blue.
The boys, who had to wriggle hastily down from the trees, were later; and Anne, who had not been picking gum at all but was wandering happily in the far end of the grove, waist deep among the bracken, singing softly to herself, with a wreath of rice lilies on her hair as if she were some wild divinity of the shadowy places, was latest of all.
Anne Shirley, reluctantly faltered forth the owner of that name, but, oh, please do call me Cordelia.
Well, I must say I dont think Anne needed any more dresses.
Well now, I guess our Anne did as well as any of them, said Matthew proudly.
Ill have to go around by the road, then, said Anne, taking up her hat reluctantly.
Just imagine how you would feel if somebody told you to your face that you were skinny and ugly, pleaded Anne tearfully.
I was thinking about Anne, she explained.
That may make me feel badly tomorrow, Josie, laughed Anne, but just now I honestly feel that as long as I know the violets are coming out all purple down in the hollow below Green Gables and that little ferns are poking their heads up in Lovers Lane, its not a great deal of difference
Anne sitting mutely on the ottoman, with her hands clasped tightly in her lap, stared at Mrs Blewett as one fascinated.
Marilla had seen Anne start off to school on the first day of September with many secret misgivings.
just the same, Mrs. Lynde, said Anne laughing.
A white lily was not obtainable just then, but the effect of a tall blue iris placed in one of Annes folded hands was all that could be desired.
Small and select, Anne assured Marilla.
If youll be a good girl youll always be happy, Anne.
In a trice Anne was out of the house and flying down to the hollow, astonishment and hope struggling in her expressive eyes.
Y-e-e-s, admitted Anne, I took it up
Anne did not know this, but it did not take her long to realize that she was in a dangerous plight.
Oh, Marilla, exclaimed Anne, flying to the washstand.
Im such an unlucky girl, mourned Anne.
And at the same time Marilla recollected that she had put the bottle of raspberry cordial down in the cellar instead of in the pantry as she had told Anne.
Diana flung the paper on the table and herself on Annes bed, utterly breathless and incapable of further speech.
And that night, when Anne had gone to prayer meeting with Diana, Marilla sat alone in the wintry twilight and indulged in the weakness of a cry.
Anne turned her back on the clock shelf and tried to imagine it wasnt there.
Matthew was in the seventh heaven of gratified pride over the honor conferred on his Anne and Marilla
Anne will be the very girl for you.
Oh, Anne, gasped Jane, as they fled to the girls dressing room amid hearty cheers.
Anne had gone over to Orchard Slope with Diana and came back to find Marilla in the kitchen, sitting by the table with her head leaning on her hand.
Marilla smothered a smile under the conviction that Anne must be reproved for such a speech.
Ruby Gillis was the handsomest girl of the year at the Academy; in the Second Year classes Stella Maynard carried off the palm for beauty, with small but critical minority in favor of Anne Shirley.
m getting old, Anne, and keep forgetting it.
So if youll forgive me, Anne, Ill forgive you and well start square again.
Dont you know who God is, Anne?
That wouldnt be so hard if people wouldnt twit me about my looks, said Anne with a sigh.
Mrs. Blewett darted her eyes over Anne from head to foot.
We were playing Elaine explained Anne frigidly, without even looking at her rescuer, and I had to drift down to Camelot in the barge
Anne looked at Marilla through the apple blossoms, her eyes aglow with interest.
Diana did Annes front hair in the new pompadour style and Anne tied Dianas bows with the especial knack she possessed; and they experimented with at least half a dozen different ways of arranging their back hair.
She would not stoop to admit that she meant to rival Gilbert in schoolwork, because that would have been to acknowledge his existence which Anne persistently ignored; but the rivalry was there and honors fluctuated between them.
At the end of the fortnight Anne took to haunting the post office also, in the distracted company of Jane, Ruby, and Josie, opening the Charlottetown dailies with shaking hands and cold, sinkaway feelings as bad as any experienced during the Entrance week.
Outside in the garden, which was full of mellow sunset light streaming through the dark old firs to the west of it, stood Anne and Diana, gazing bashfully at each other over a clump of gorgeous tiger lilies.
Well, I hope youll repent to good purpose, said Marilla severely, and that youve got your eyes opened to where your vanity has led you, Anne.
If I was just the one Anne it would be ever so much more comfortable, but then it wouldnt be half so interesting.
And how are you, Anne?
All her pains were bestowed upon Anne, who, she vowed, must, for the credit of Avonlea, be dressed and combed and adorned to the Queens taste.
Youre only Anne of Green Gables, she said earnestly, and I see you, just as you are looking now, whenever I try to imagine Im the Lady Cordelia.
Anne looked accordingly.
Ive a compliment for you, Anne, said Diana.
Anne, Frank Stockley says that Professor Tremaine said Gilbert Blythe was sure to get the medal and that Emily Clay would likely win the Avery scholarship.
For a minute Anne, after her first quick exclamation of dismay, was silent.
There was no silly sentiment in Annes ideas concerning Gilbert.
Old Mr. Bentley, the minister whom Anne had found lacking in imagination, had been pastor of Avonlea for eighteen years.
Miss Stacy never mentioned such a thing to me, Anne, and its only your guilty conscience thats the matter with you.
WHEN Marilla took Anne up to bed that night she said stiffly:
But Anne, with her elbows on the window sill, her soft cheek laid against her clasped hands, and her eyes filled with visions, looked out unheedingly across city roof and spire to that glorious dome of sunset sky and wove her dreams of a possible future from the golden tissue of youths own optimism.
You must say your prayers while you are under my roof, Anne.
Breakfast, dinner, and supper were very silent meals for Anne still remained obdurate.
For Anne the real excitement began with the dismissal of school and increased therefrom in crescendo until it reached to a crash of positive ecstasy in the concert itself.
Since the day by the pond when she had refused to listen to his plea for forgiveness, Gilbert, save for the aforesaid determined rivalry, had evinced no recognition whatever of the existence of Anne Shirley.
Couldnt I? cried Anne rashly.
Anne had a brighter face, and bigger, starrier eyes, and more delicate features than the other; even shy, unobservant Matthew had learned to take note of these things; but the difference that disturbed him did not consist in any of these respects.
Gilbert had whisked the pin out of sight and was studying his history with the soberest face in the world; but when the commotion subsided he looked at Anne and winked with inexpressible drollery.
Anne sighed and yielded.
are such sociable trees, said Anne; theyre always rustling and whispering to you until they came to a rustic bridge.
Shell be more likely to let you go then; and if she does well have the time of our lives, Anne.
Theyre theyre not pretty, said Anne reluctantly.
Anne put it on a tray and set it on the table with a tumbler.
The velvet carpet with the pink roses and the pink silk curtains of Annes early visions had certainly never materialized; but her dreams had kept pace with her growth, and it is not probable
Very well, said Anne resignedly.
She was looking very pretty herself on this particular night in a dress of the lovely wild-rose pink, from which Anne was forever debarred; but she was not to take any part in the concert, so her appearance was of minor importance.
Oh, Anne, how could you pretend not to listen to him?
Anne and the rest of the Avonlea scholars reached town just in time to hurry off to the Academy.
I shall never forget it, smiled Anne, touching the heavy braid of hair that was wound about her shapely head.
Anne Shirley, when I ask you a question I want to be answered.
raspberry cordial, Anne, she said.
I dont say that I think Mrs. Lynde was exactly right in saying what she did to you, Anne
Youre a credit to your friends, Anne, thats what, and were all proud of you.
Anne, flushed with delight, clapped it together with layers of ruby jelly and, in imagination, saw Mrs. Allan eating it and possibly asking for another piece!
You shouldnt cry, Anne; it isnt becoming, for your nose and eyes get red, and then you seem all red.
Anne, I do think its awful mean the way you treat Gil.
God is a spirit, infinite, eternal and unchangeable, in His being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth, responded Anne promptly and glibly.
Oh, Anne!
Anne looked earnestly into her friends face.
She found Anne standing motionless before a picture hanging on the wall between the two windows, with her eyes a-star with dreams.
I never say any prayers, announced Anne.
The rivalry between them was soon apparent; it was entirely good natured on Gilberts side; but it is much to be feared that the same thing cannot be said of Anne, who had certainly an unpraiseworthy tenacity for holding grudges.
Gilbert obligingly rowed to the landing and Anne, disdaining assistance, sprang nimbly on shore.
I think he has only been its nominal head for many years, said Anne.
Then Im Conservative too, said Anne decidedly.
Anne Shirley! said Marilla rebukingly.
and youve never played ball, Anne.
Marilla had been wondering where Anne should be put to bed.
Anne gave one gasping little scream which nobody ever heard; she was white to the lips, but she did not lose her self-possession.
Anne looked rather scared.
When Miss Barry went away she said: Remember, you Anne-girl, when you come to town youre to visit me and Ill
With this encouragement Anne bearded the lion in its den that is to say, walked resolutely up to the sitting-room door and knocked faintly.
queried Anne anxiously.
I think you ought to let Anne go, repeated Matthew firmly.
Gilbert Blythe, Anne Shirley, Ruby Gillis, Jane Andrews, Josie Pye, Charlie Sloane, and Moody Spurgeon MacPherson joined it.
asked Anne.
Shell have to, said Anne.
Not for worlds would Anne have had Gilbert Blythe or Josie Pye see those tears.
Now Gilbert was head of the spelling class; now Anne, with a toss of her long red braids, spelled him down.
said Anne, rousing from a long, wide-eyed silence.
Mrs. Barry had her table decorated, said Anne, who was not entirely guiltless of the wisdom of the serpent, and the minister paid her an elegant compliment.
But if you call me Anne please call me Anne spelled with an E.
Ill imagine that I like them, said Anne soberly.
Annes unhappiness continued for a week.
But but, faltered Anne, Diana says that everybody must take a basket of things to eat.
Anne ran blithely up the hill and into the kitchen, where a hot supper was waiting on the table.
Yours devotedly, Anne The geometry examination and all the others were over in due time and Anne arrived home on Friday evening, rather tired but with an air of chastened triumph about her.
Marilla looked curiously at Anne when the latter entered the kitchen.
And you, Anne-girl?