Sir, said Mr. Woodhouse, rather warmly, you are very much mistaken if you suppose Mr. Perry to be that sort of character.
Dear Emma bears every thing so well, said her father.
Emma was just describing the nature of her friend's complaint; a throat very much inflamed, with a great deal of heat about her, a quick, low pulse, &c.
Miss Woodhouse looks as if she did not want me.
Mrs. Weston's manners, said Emma, were always particularly good.
Emma thought with pleasure of some change of subject.
Emma's answer was ready at the first word.
What will you say, Emma what will any body say, when it is known that Frank Churchill and Miss Fairfax are engaged; nay, that they have been long engaged!
Emma liked the subject so well, that she began upon it, to Mrs. Weston, very soon after their moving into the drawing-room: wishing her joy yet observing, that she knew the first meeting must be rather alarming.  
no, no cried Emma, laughing as carelessly as she could Upon no account in the world.
It was a very great relief to Emma to find Harriet as desirous as herself to avoid a meeting.
When they had nothing else to say, it must be always easy to begin abusing Miss Woodhouse; and the enmity which they dared not shew in open disrespect to her, found a broader vent in contemptuous treatment of Harriet.
It was a more pressing concern to shew attention to Jane Fairfax, whose prospects were closing, while Harriet's opened, and whose engagements now allowed of no delay in any one at Highbury, who wished to shew her kindness and with Emma it was grown into a first wish.
Indeed, Miss Woodhouse, (speaking more collectedly,) with the consciousness which I have of misconduct, very great misconduct, it is particularly consoling to me to know that those of my friends, whose good opinion is most worth preserving, are not disgusted to such a degree as to
He had the air of congratulating himself on having brought such a woman to Highbury, as not even Miss Woodhouse could equal; and the greater part of her new acquaintance, disposed to commend, or not in the habit of judging, following the lead of Miss Bates's good-will, or taking it for granted that the bride must be as clever and as agreeable as she professed herself, were very well satisfied; so that Mrs. Elton's praise passed from one mouth to another as it ought to do, unimpeded by Miss Woodhouse, who readily continued her first contribution and talked with a good grace of her being very pleasant and very elegantly dressed.
However, as they are so very desirous to have dear Emma dine with them, and as you will both be there, and Mr. Knightley too, to take care of her, I cannot wish to prevent it, provided the weather be what it ought,
But I beg your pardon, Miss Woodhouse
Oh!' said I, 'it is Miss Woodhouse:
I will not say, that since I entered into the engagement I have not had some happy moments; but I can say, that I have never known the blessing of one tranquil hour:' and the quivering lip, Emma, which uttered it, was an attestation that I felt at my heart.
I say, sir, turning to Mr. Woodhouse, I think there are few places with such society as Highbury.
But the idea of any thing to be done in a moment, was increasing, not lessening, Mr. Woodhouse's agitation.
She hears us, she hears us, Miss Woodhouse.
Emma was extremely gratified.
It had a most favourable aspect; and, for half a minute, Emma felt the glory of having schemed successfully.
he could bear any degree of cold, etc., but heat was intolerable and he sat down, at the greatest possible distance from the slight remains of Mr. Woodhouse's fire, looking very deplorable.
I always regret excessively on dear Emma's account that she cannot be more at Highbury; but now their daughter is married, I suppose Colonel and Mrs. Campbell will not be able to part with her at all.
Such expressions, assisted as they were by every thing that look and manner could do, made Emma feel that she had never loved Harriet so well, nor valued her affection so highly before.
The Woodhouses were first in consequence there.
Emma knew that he had, on that occasion, found her much superior to his expectation.
She will be extremely sorry to miss seeing you, Miss Woodhouse, but your kindness will excuse her.
You will get nothing to the purpose from Miss Bates, said Emma.
I did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your brother, cried Emma, about your friend Mr. Graham's intending to have a bailiff from Scotland, to look after his new estate.
I am afraid, returned Emma, sighing, that I must often have contributed to make her unhappy.
He could not see any objection at all to his, and Emma's, and Harriet's going there some very fine morning.
The weather affected Mr. Woodhouse, and he could only be kept tolerably comfortable by almost ceaseless attention on his daughter's side, and by exertions which had never cost her half so much before.
did look a little foolish at first: but having once owned that she had been presumptuous and silly, and self-deceived, before, her pain and confusion seemed to die away with the words, and leave her without a care for the past, and with the fullest exultation in the present and future; for, as to her friend's approbation, Emma had instantly removed every fear of that nature, by meeting her with the most unqualified congratulations.
I am happy you approved, said Emma, smiling; but I hope I am not often deficient in what is due to guests at Hartfield.
While he talked to Isabella, however, Emma found an opportunity of saying, And so you do not consider this visit from your son as by any means certain.
Gone to Mr. Woodhouse's.
Emma could not have a better companion than Harriet.
I am very much obliged to you, said Emma, laughing again.
Say nothing, my dear Emma, while you oblige me to read not even of Mrs. Elton.
He took some music from a chair near the pianoforte, and turning to Emma, said, Here is something quite new to me.
Emma quite confirmed by the depressed manner in which he still spoke I should like to take another turn.
To fall in with each other on such an errand as this, thought Emma; to meet in a charitable scheme; this will bring a great increase of love on each side.
Emma assured her there would be no difficulty in the answer, and advised its being written directly, which was agreed to, in the hope of her assistance; and though Emma continued to protest against any assistance being wanted, it was in fact given in the formation of every sentence.
It must be done directly; it must be done in London; the order must go through the hands of some intelligent person whose taste could be depended on; and Isabella, the usual doer of all commissions, must not be applied to, because it was December, and Mr. Woodhouse could not bear the idea of her stirring out of her house in the fogs of December.
CHAPTER VI Emma could not feel a doubt of having given Harriet's fancy a proper direction and raised the gratitude of her young vanity to a very good purpose, for she found her decidedly more sensible than before of Mr. Elton's being a remarkably handsome man, with most agreeable manners; and as she had no hesitation in following up the assurance of his admiration by agreeable hints, she was soon pretty confident of creating as much liking on Harriet's side, as there could be any occasion for.
This little explanation with Mr. Knightley gave Emma considerable pleasure.
thought Emma but
Not that Emma was gay and thoughtless from any real felicity; it was rather because she felt less happy than she had expected.
Emma allowed her father to talk but supplied her visitors in a much more satisfactory style, and on the present evening had particular pleasure in sending them away happy.
Well, Emma, I do not believe I have any thing more to say about the boys; but you have your sister's letter, and every thing is down at full length there
but dear Miss Woodhouse, she is now in such retirement, such obscurity, so thrown away.
Amiable and delightful as Miss Woodhouse is
She had not time to know how Mr. Elton took the reproof, so rapidly did another subject succeed; for Mr. John Knightley now came into the room from examining the weather, and opened on them all with the information of the ground being covered with snow, and of its still snowing fast, with a strong drifting wind; concluding with these words to Mr. Woodhouse:
It was a melancholy change; and Emma could not but sigh over it, and wish for impossible things, till her father awoke, and made it necessary to be cheerful.
And no great harm if it does, said Mr. Woodhouse.
He argued like a young man very much bent on dancing; and Emma was rather surprized to see the constitution of the Weston prevail so decidedly against the habits of the Churchills.
Harriet listened submissively, and said it was very true it was just as Miss Woodhouse described it was not worth while to think about them
Emma hoped it must rapidly work Harriet's cure; but the sensations which could prompt such behaviour sunk them both very much.
Till this year, every long vacation since their marriage had been divided between Hartfield and Donwell Abbey; but all the holidays of this autumn had been given to sea-bathing for the children, and it was therefore many months since they had been seen in a regular way by their Surry connexions, or seen at all by Mr. Woodhouse, who could not be induced to get so far as London, even for poor Isabella's sake; and who consequently was now most nervously and apprehensively happy in forestalling this too short visit.
Emma listened with the warmest concern; grieved for her more and more, and looked around eager to discover some way of being useful.
Mr. Elton was speaking with animation, Harriet listening with a very pleased attention; and Emma, having sent the child on, was beginning to think how she might draw back a little more, when they both looked around, and she was obliged to join them.
Those were the words; in them lay the tormenting ideas which Emma could not get rid of, and which constituted the real misery of the business to her.
I dare say, replied Mrs. Weston, smiling, that I thought so then; but since we have parted, I can never remember Emma's omitting to do any thing I wished.
He ought to come, said Emma.
Ever since I left you this morning, Emma, my mind has been hard at work on one subject.
The weather soon improved enough for those to move who must move; and Mr. Woodhouse having, as usual, tried to persuade his daughter to stay behind with all her children, was obliged to see the whole party set off, and return to his lamentations over the destiny of poor Isabella; which poor Isabella, passing her life with those she doated on, full of their merits, blind to their faults, and always innocently busy, might have been a model of right feminine happiness.
Short had been the notice short their meeting; he was gone; and Emma felt so sorry to part, and foresaw so great a loss to their little society from his absence as to begin to be afraid of being too sorry, and feeling it too much.
I was not quite impartial in my judgment, Emma: but yet
Emma called on her the next day, and found her doom already signed with regard to Randalls.
that's a great pity; for I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, where the waters do agree, it is quite wonderful the relief they give.
Something occurred while they were at Hartfield, to make Emma want their advice; and, which was still more lucky, she wanted exactly the advice they gave.
with considerable kindness added, You, Emma, who have so few opportunities of dancing, you are really out of luck; you are very much out of luck!
After Emma had talked about it for ten minutes, Mr. Woodhouse felt no unwillingness, and only made the usual stipulation of not sitting at the bottom of the table himself, with the usual regular difficulty of deciding who should do it for him.
, Emma found herself obliged to turn from him for a few minutes, and listen to Mr. Cole.
She would be respectable and happy; and Emma admitted her to be the luckiest creature in the world, to have created so steady and persevering an affection in such a man; or, if not quite the luckiest, to yield only to herself.
Mrs. Elton, before she could be spoken to, was ready; and before Mr. Woodhouse had reached her with his request to be allowed to hand her into the dining-parlour, was saying  
Harriet, Mr. Elton, and Mr. Knightley, their own especial set, were the only persons invited to meet them; the hours were to be early, as well as the numbers few; Mr. Woodhouse's habits and inclination being consulted in every thing.
Dear Miss Woodhouse!
This wretched note was the finale of Emma's breakfast.
CHAPTER IX Emma's pensive meditations, as she walked home, were not interrupted; but on entering the parlour, she found those who must rouse her.
Emma could not but feel all this; and then, her face her features there was more beauty in them altogether than she had remembered; it was not regular, but it was very pleasing beauty.
While they were thus comfortably occupied, Mr. Woodhouse was enjoying a full flow of happy regrets and fearful affection with his daughter.
but dear Emma was of no feeble character; she was more equal to her situation than most girls would have been, and had sense, and energy, and spirits that might be hoped would bear her well and happily through its little difficulties and privations.
Emma and Harriet professed very high expectations of pleasure from it; and Mr. Weston, unasked, promised to get Frank over to join them, if possible; a proof of approbation and gratitude which could have been dispensed with.
I think, Emma, I shall try and persuade her to stay longer with us.
And Emma had the advantage of hearing her own silly compliment repeated twice over before the good old lady could comprehend it.
cried Emma, shaking her head.
My dearest Emma, said he, for dearest you will always be, whatever the event of this hour's conversation, my dearest, most beloved Emma tell me at once.
Come Miss Woodhouse, Miss Otway, Miss Fairfax, what are you all doing?
As to connexion, there Emma was perfectly easy; persuaded, that after all his own vaunted claims and disdain of Harriet, he had done nothing.
Very beautiful, indeed, replied Emma; and she spoke so kindly, that he gratefully burst out,
Miss Woodhouse, this is not like our friend Knightley!
Miss Woodhouse, do talk to me and make me comfortable again.
As you do us such ample justice now, said Emma, laughing, I will venture to ask, whether you did not come a little doubtfully at first?
How very few of those men in a rank of life to address Emma would have renounced their own home for Hartfield!
Mr. Knightley had spoken prophetically, when he once said, Emma, you have been no friend to Harriet Smith.
With the exception of this little blot, Emma found that his visit hitherto had given her friend only good ideas of him.
Offended, probably, by the little encouragement which her proposals of intimacy met with, she drew back in her turn and gradually became much more cold and distant; and though the effect was agreeable, the ill-will which produced it was necessarily increasing Emma's dislike.
The unpersuadable point, which he did not mention, Emma guessed to be good behaviour to his father.
The visit was of course short; and there was so much embarrassment and occupation of mind to shorten it, that Emma would not allow herself entirely to form an opinion of the lady, and on no account to give one, beyond the nothing-meaning terms of being elegantly dressed, and very pleasing.
The difference of Harriet at Mrs. Goddard's, or in London, made perhaps an unreasonable difference in Emma's sensations; but she could not think of her in London without objects of curiosity and employment, which must be averting the past, and carrying her out of herself.
Mrs. Weston was looking so ill, and had an air of so much perturbation, that Emma's uneasiness increased; and
There were misunderstandings between them, Emma; he said so expressly.
She was too completely overpowered to be immediately able to reply: and two moments of silence being ample encouragement for Mr. Elton's sanguine state of mind, he tried to take her hand again, as he joyously exclaimed  Charming Miss Woodhouse!
And I do envy him, Emma.
Emma could not doubt.
and though this was not particularly agreeable to Emma herself, she knew it would be so much less so to her father, that she would not have him really suspect such a circumstance as her not being thought perfect by every body.
and Emma received a smile which seemed to say, These are my own concerns.
They all walked about together, to see that every thing was as it should be; and within a few minutes were joined by the contents of another carriage, which Emma could not hear the sound of at first, without great surprize.
The shade was most refreshing, and Emma found it the pleasantest part of the day.
In this walk Emma and Mr. Weston found all the others assembled; and towards this view she immediately perceived Mr. Knightley and Harriet distinct from the rest, quietly leading the way.
Emma knew it to have been very much the case.
Emma saw Mrs. Weston's surprize, and felt that it must be great, at an address which, in words and manner, was assuming to himself the right of first interest in her; and as for herself, she was too much provoked and offended to have the power of directly saying any thing to the purpose.
Emma returned all her attention to her father, saying in secret  
Isabella stept in after her father; John Knightley, forgetting that he did not belong to their party, stept in after his wife very naturally; so that Emma found, on being escorted and followed into the second carriage by Mr. Elton, that the door was to be lawfully shut on them, and that they were to have a tete-a-tete drive.
And when, thought Emma, will there be a beginning of Mr. Churchill?
Mr. Elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to make; which was exactly the case; for though very much gratified by the kind care of such a fair lady, and not liking to resist any advice of her's, he had not really the least inclination to give up the visit; but Emma, too eager and busy in her own previous conceptions and views to hear him impartially, or see him with clear vision, was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its being very cold, certainly very cold, and walked on, rejoicing in having extricated him from Randalls, and secured him the power of sending to inquire after Harriet every hour of the evening.
Harriet did think him all perfection, and maintained the non-existence of any body equal to him in person or goodness and did, in truth, prove herself more resolutely in love than Emma had foreseen; but yet it appeared to her
who can think of Miss Smith, when Miss Woodhouse is near!
Emma wished she could have seen her, and tried her own powers; but, almost before she could hint the wish, Miss Bates made it appear that she had promised her niece on no account to let Miss Woodhouse in.
Mr. Woodhouse had been safely seated long enough to give the history of it, besides all the history of his own and Isabella's coming, and of Emma's being to follow, and had indeed just got to the end of his satisfaction that James should come and see his daughter, when the others appeared, and Mrs. Weston, who had been almost wholly engrossed by her attentions to him, was able to turn away and welcome her dear Emma.
Emma understood him; and as soon as she could recover from the flutter of pleasure, excited by such tender consideration, replied, You are very kind
I am losing all my bitterness against spoilt children, my dearest Emma.
My dear Emma, we must consider this.
Emma spoke with a very proper degree of pleasure; and fully assented to his proposition of Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Smith making their party quite complete.
I have a great regard for you and Emma; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence!
She would be such a delightful companion for Emma.
madam, cried Emma, if other children are at all like what I remember to have been myself, I should think five times the amount of what I have ever yet heard named as a salary on such occasions, dearly earned.
It is impossible that Emma should not miss such a companion, said Mr. Knightley.
Mr. Weston, his son, Emma, and Harriet, only remained; and the young man's spirits now rose to a pitch almost unpleasant.
She followed another carriage to Mr. Cole's door; and was pleased to see that it was Mr. Knightley's; for Mr. Knightley keeping no horses, having little spare money and a great deal of health, activity, and independence, was too apt, in Emma's opinion, to get about as he could, and not use his carriage so often as became the owner of Donwell Abbey.
Emma listened, and looked, and soon perceived that Frank Churchill's state might be best defined by the expressive phrase of being out of humour.
Emma could not suppose any such thing, knowing as she did, that both the Mr. Knightleys were as unpersuadable on that article as herself; and two basins only were ordered.
was Mr. Woodhouse's first exclamation, and all that he could say for some time.
Though now the middle of December, there had yet been no weather to prevent the young ladies from tolerably regular exercise; and on the morrow, Emma had a charitable visit to pay to a poor sick family, who lived a little way out of Highbury.
We shall never agree about him, cried Emma; but that is nothing extraordinary.
While he spoke, Emma's mind was most busy, and, with all the wonderful velocity of thought, had been able and yet without losing a word to catch and comprehend the exact truth of the whole; to see that Harriet's hopes had been entirely groundless, a mistake, a delusion, as complete a delusion as any of her own that Harriet was nothing; that she was every thing herself; that what she had been saying relative to Harriet had been all taken as the language of her own feelings; and that her agitation, her doubts, her reluctance, her discouragement, had been all received as discouragement from herself.
Mrs. Weston and Emma tried earnestly to cheer him and turn his attention from his son-in-law, who was pursuing his triumph rather unfeelingly.
Not unfrequently, through Emma's persuasion, he had some of the chosen and the best to dine with him: but evening parties were what he preferred; and, unless he fancied himself at any time unequal to company, there was scarcely an evening in the week in which Emma could not make up a card-table for him.
Why had not Miss Woodhouse revived the former good old days of the room?
Dear Miss Woodhouse, how do you do?
Emma, who was not really at all frightened herself, tranquillised this excess of apprehension by assurances of Mrs. Goddard's experience and care; but as there must still remain a degree of uneasiness which she could not wish to reason away, which she would rather feed and assist than not, she added soon afterwards as if quite another subject,
said Emma.
Emma smiled, and felt that Mr. Weston had very good reason for saying so.
Mr. Woodhouse's peculiarities and fidgetiness were sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort equally ill-bestowed.
Why, really, dear Emma, I say that he is so very much occupied by the idea of not being in love with her, that I should not wonder if it were to end in his being so at last.
Emma was not thinking of it at the moment, which made the information she received more valuable.
My Emma, he means no such thing.
Well, Miss Woodhouse, (with a gentle sigh,) what do you think of her?
Emma's eyes were instantly withdrawn; and she sat silently meditating, in a fixed attitude, for a few minutes.
If Miss Woodhouse would not be displeased, she would rather stay at home.
So Emma thought, at least.
I hope every body had a pleasant evening, said Mr. Woodhouse, in his quiet way.
Emma smiled and answered My visit was of use to the nervous part of her complaint
I do not recommend matrimony at present to Emma, though I mean no slight to the state, I assure you.
Mr. Woodhouse was rather agitated by such harsh reflections on his friend Perry,
Emma would not agree to this, and began a warm defence of Miss Fairfax's complexion.
Yes, yes, pray pass me, added her husband, with a sort of sneering consciousness; I have nothing to say that can entertain Miss Woodhouse, or any other young lady.
This point was just arranged, when a visitor arrived to tear Emma's thoughts a little from the one subject which had engrossed them, sleeping or waking, the last twenty-four hours Mrs. Weston, who had been calling on her daughter-in-law elect, and took Hartfield in her way home, almost as much in duty to Emma as in pleasure to herself, to relate all the particulars of so interesting an interview.
To amuse her, and be agreeable in her eyes, seemed all that he cared for and Emma, glad to be enlivened, not sorry to be flattered, was gay and easy too, and gave him all the friendly encouragement, the admission to be gallant, which she had ever given in the first and most animating period of their acquaintance; but which now, in her own estimation, meant nothing, though in the judgment of most people looking on it must have had such an appearance as no English word but flirtation could very well describe.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am ordered by Miss Woodhouse (who, wherever she is, presides) to say, that she desires to know what you are all thinking of?
said Emma in a whisper.
Mr. Woodhouse would be alarmed she had better go; with most ready encouragement from her friend, therefore, she passed off through another door and the moment she was gone, this was the spontaneous burst of Emma's feelings:
For a little while Emma persevered in her silence; but beginning to apprehend the bewitching flattery of that letter might be too powerful, she thought it best to say, I lay it down as a general rule, Harriet, that if a woman doubts as to whether she should accept a man or not, she certainly ought to refuse him.
I am ready, said Emma, whenever I am wanted.
She was short, plump, and fair, with a fine bloom, blue eyes, light hair, regular features, and a look of great sweetness, and, before the end of the evening, Emma was as much pleased with her manners as her person, and quite determined to continue the acquaintance.
Very true, Miss Woodhouse, so she will.
dear, Miss Woodhouse
Emma doubted the truth of this sentiment.
so she was rather disappointed, but we agreed we would not speak of it to any body, for fear of its getting round to dear Miss Woodhouse, who would be so very much concerned!
cried Emma, collecting herself resolutely Let us understand each other now, without the possibility of farther mistake.
Poor Mr. Woodhouse was silent from consternation; but every body else had something to say; every body was either surprized or not surprized, and had some question to ask, or some comfort to offer.
Harriet, who had been standing in no unhappy reverie, was yet very glad to be called from it, by the now encouraging manner of such a judge, and such a friend as Miss Woodhouse, and
As soon as Mrs. Weston was sufficiently recovered to admit Mr. Woodhouse's visits, Emma having it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the cause, resolved first to announce it at home, and then at Randalls.
And from her great, her more than commonly thankful delight towards Mrs. Elton for being there, Emma guessed that there had been a little show of resentment towards Jane, from the vicarage quarter, which was now graciously overcome.
Emma was quite at a loss.