Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little gossip concerning the good people of Geneva.
Listen to me, Frankenstein.
She nursed Madame Frankenstein, my aunt, in her last illness, with the greatest affection and care and afterwards attended her own mother during a tedious illness, in a manner that excited the admiration of all who knew her, after which she again lived in my uncles house, where she was beloved by all the family.
And how, Victor, can I relate our misfortune?
Frankenstein!
Again there is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie.
Tell me, dearest Victor.
You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite plan of your parents ever since our infancy.
Frankenstein, your son, your kinsman, your early, much-loved friend; he who would spend each vital drop of blood for your sakes, who has no thought nor sense of joy except as it is mirrored also in your dear countenances, who would fill the air with blessings and spend his life in serving youhe bids you weep, to shed countless tears; happy beyond his hopes, if thus inexorable fate be satisfied, and if the destruction pause before the peace of the grave have succeeded to your sad torments!
Frankenstein, who was dozing, awoke and asked the cause of the tumult.
Hear him not; call on the names of William, Justine, Clerval, Elizabeth, my father, and of the wretched Victor, and thrust your sword into his heart.
My dear Victor, do not speak thus.
So much has been done, exclaimed the soul of Frankensteinmore, far more, will I achieve; treading in the steps already marked, I will pioneer a new way, explore unknown powers, and unfold to the world the deepest mysteries of creation.
Frankenstein has daily declined in health; a feverish fire still glimmers in his eyes, but he is exhausted, and when suddenly roused to any exertion, he speedily sinks again into apparent lifelessness.
Farewell, Frankenstein!
My dear Victor, You have probably waited impatiently for a letter to fix the date of your return to us; and I was at first tempted to write only a few lines, merely mentioning the day on which I should expect you.
My dear Frankenstein, exclaimed Henry, when he perceived me weep with bitterness, are you always to be unhappy?
Dear Victor, banish these dark passions.
Sometimes I endeavoured to gain from Frankenstein the particulars of his creatures formation, but on this point he was impenetrable.
Your affectionate and afflicted father, Alphonse Frankenstein.
My dear Victor, do not waste your time upon this; it is sad trash.
Do you think, Victor, said he, that I do not suffer also?
My dear Victor, cried he, what, for Gods sake, is the matter?
Yes, said Elizabeth, I will go, although she is guilty; and you, Victor, shall accompany me; I cannot go alone.
Be happy, my dear Victor, replied Elizabeth; there is, I hope, nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not painted in my face, my heart is contented.
Victor, be assured that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made miserable by this supposition.
I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when I called to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of eloquence and persuasion, and when I again cast my eyes on the lifeless form of my friend, indignation was rekindled within me.
I hesitated before I answered, when Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and indeed appeared hardly to have force enough to attend
I have seen, he said, the most beautiful scenes of my own country; I have visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the snowy mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water, casting black and impenetrable shades, which would cause a gloomy and mournful appearance were it not for the most verdant islands that relieve the eye by their gay appearance; I have seen this lake agitated by a tempest, when the wind tore up whirlwinds of water and gave you an idea of what the water-spout must be on the great ocean; and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain, where the priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an avalanche and where their dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the nightly wind; I have seen the mountains of La Valais, and the Pays de Vaud; but this country, Victor, pleases me more than all those wonders.
You are forbidden to writeto hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor, is necessary to calm our apprehensions.
But you, my dear Frankenstein, wherefore are you desponding and sorrowful!
Frankenstein discovered that I made notes concerning his history; he asked to see them
Believe me, Frankenstein, I was benevolent; my soul glowed with love and humanity; but am I not alone, miserably alone?
Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of unbounded wonder, My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this?
But, my dear Frankenstein, continued he, stopping short and gazing full in my face, I did not before remark how very ill you appear; so thin and pale; you look as if you had been watching for several nights.
The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear Victor, gives me more pleasure than I have for some time experienced.
Oh, Frankenstein!
You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes.
Ay, ay, continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering, M. Frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young man.
On the evening previous to her being brought to my home, my mother had said playfully, I have a pretty present for my Victortomorrow he shall have it.
My dear Frankenstein, exclaimed he, how glad I am to see you!
Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can assure themselves of certain happiness?
Alas, Victor!
I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to horror; I abhorred myself.
Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of poor William.
Welcome, my dearest Victor, said he.
Come, dearest Victor; you alone can console Elizabeth.
Come, Victor; not brooding thoughts of vengeance against the assassin, but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal, instead of festering, the wounds of our minds.
Oh, Frankenstein, be not equitable to every other and trample upon me alone, to whom thy justice, and even thy clemency and affection, is most due.
What is it that agitates you, my dear Victor?
Victor, he is murdered!
Write, dearest Victor
M. Frankensteinhe will punish you.
If you had listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of remorse before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this extremity, Frankenstein would yet have lived.