"Jane, you are mistaken: probably not one in the school either despises or dislikes you: many, I am sure, pity you much."
"You should care, Janet: if I were what I once was, I would try to make you care but a sightless block!"
"What are they doing, Jane?"
My living Jane?"
Miss Temple, having assembled the whole school, announced that inquiry had been made into the charges alleged against Jane Eyre, and that she was most happy to be able to pronounce her completely cleared from every imputation.
Now, Jane, why don't you say 'Well, sir?'
Don't draw that chair farther off, Miss Eyre; sit down exactly where I placed it if you please, that is.
"Jane, you offered me your shoulder once before; let me have it now."
To live, for me, Jane, is to stand on a crater-crust which may crack and spue fire any day."
"Yes, Jane.
"Jane, be still a few moments: you are over-excited: I will be still too."
Jane, what are you doing?"
Some time passed before he spoke; he at last said "Come to my side, Jane, and let us explain and understand one another."
Yes: but remember, Jane, you promised to wake with me the night before my wedding."
she asked, in a voice and with a smile I half recognised; "you've not quite forgotten me, I think, Miss Jane?"
Here ensued a pause, filled up by the producing and lighting of a cigar; having placed it to his lips and breathed a trail of Havannah incense on the freezing and sunless air, he went on "I liked bonbons too in those days, Miss Eyre, and I was croquant (overlook the barbarism) croquant chocolate comfits, and smoking alternately, watching meantime the equipages that rolled along the fashionable streets towards the neighbouring opera-house
Give me your confidence, Jane," he said: "relieve your mind of any weight that oppresses it, by imparting it to me.
"Well then, Jane, call to aid your fancy: suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined, but
"Good-night, Jane."
Jane, run down to Mr. Mason's room, the one next mine, and fetch a cloak you will see there."
"You're not grown so very tall, Miss Jane, nor so very stout," continued Mrs. Leaven.
"I thought you would be revolted, Jane, when you saw my arm, and my cicatrised visage."
"Where, Jane?
that I was christened St. John Eyre Rivers?"
{You are altogether a human being, Jane?
But you are passionate, Jane, that you must allow: and now return to the nursery there's a dear and lie down a little."
During the moment I was silent, Miss Eyre, I was arranging a point with my destiny.
"Pass, Janet," said he, making room for me to cross the stile: "go up home, and stay your weary little wandering feet at a friend's threshold.
I mention this in your hearing, Jane, that you may not attempt to impose on Mr. Brocklehurst.
Alone, Jane?" they asked.
"You looked very much puzzled, Miss Eyre; and though you are not pretty any more than I am handsome, yet a puzzled air becomes you; besides, it is convenient, for it keeps those searching eyes of yours away from my physiognomy, and busies them with the worsted flowers of the rug; so puzzle on.
"You blushed, and now you are white, Jane
"Do you like this sunrise, Jane?
I heard him in a blubbering tone commence the tale of how "that nasty Jane Eyre" had flown at him like a mad cat: he was stopped rather harshly "Don't talk to me about her, John: I told you not to go near her; she is not worthy of notice; I do not choose that either you or your sisters should associate with her."
I wish he loved you does he, Jane?
"Is this Jane Eyre?"
Jane, will you marry me?"
Well, Jane?" he said, as he rested his back against the schoolroom door, which he had shut.
Have you ever heard anything from your father's kinsfolk, the Eyres?"
"It is you is it, Jane?
Jane suits me: do I suit her?"
"Take a seat and bear me company, Jane: please God, it is the last meal but one you will eat at Thornfield Hall for a long time.
"In the name of all the elves in Christendom, is that Jane Eyre?"
Jane!
"No, Jane, you are not comfortable there, because your heart is not with me: it is with this cousin this St. John.
, I believe I gave orders that Jane Eyre should be left in the red-room till I came to her myself."
Look here; to gain some real affection from you, or Miss Temple, or any other whom I truly love, I would willingly submit to have the bone of my arm broken, or to let a bull toss me, or to stand behind a kicking horse, and let it dash its hoof at my chest " "Hush, Jane!
recommenced he, with a gentleness that broke me down with grief, and turned me stone-cold with ominous terror for this still voice was the pant of a lion rising "Jane, do you mean to go one way in the world, and to let me go another?"
I (D.V.), or rather, not I, but one Jane Rochester, a person whom
Jane, did you ever hear or know that I was not the eldest son of my house:
Is that wrong, Jane?
"What, Jane!
"Because you gave me a new name Jane Rochester; and it seems so strange."
Don't you think so, Jane?"
Jane, will you have a flower?"
Give me back nine pounds, Jane; I've a use for it."
"Jane, if aid is wanted, I'll seek it at your hands; I promise you that."
"You are a strange child, Miss Jane," she said, as she looked down at me; "a little roving, solitary thing:
"Jane, Jane," said he, stopping before me, "you are quite pale with your vigils: don't you curse me for disturbing your rest?"
Jane, leave me: go and marry Rivers."
"Jane, be still; don't struggle so, like a wild frantic bird that is rending its own plumage in its desperation."
Jane, I shall watch you closely and anxiously I warn you of that.
"Justly thought; rightly said, Miss Eyre; and, at this moment, I am paving hell with energy."
Mr. Briggs, being Mr. Eyre's solicitor, wrote to us last August to inform us of our uncle's death, and to say that he had left his property to his brother the clergyman's orphan daughter, overlooking us, in consequence of a quarrel, never forgiven, between him and my father.
Jane, I saw it was an accident; you shall not be punished.
I used to enjoy a chance meeting with you, Jane, at this time: there was a curious hesitation in your manner: you glanced at me with a slight trouble a hovering doubt: you did not know what my caprice might be whether I was going to play the master and be stern, or the friend and be benignant.
"You are dumb, Miss Eyre.
"It is a long way to Ireland, Janet, and I am sorry to send my little friend on such weary travels: but if I can't do better, how is it to be helped?
While I tried to devour my tears, a fit of coughing seized Helen; it did not, however, wake the nurse; when it was over, she lay some minutes exhausted; then she whispered "Jane, your little feet are bare; lie down and cover yourself with my quilt.
"I want a smoke, Jane, or a pinch of snuff, to comfort me under all this, 'pour me donner une contenance,' as Adele would say; and unfortunately I have neither my cigar-case, nor my snuff-box.
"Humility, Jane," said he, "is the groundwork of Christian virtues: you say right that you are not fit for the work.
"You know I am a scoundrel, Jane?
"You, Jane, I must have you for my own entirely my own.
And, Miss Eyre, so much was I flattered by this preference of the Gallic sylph for her British gnome, that I installed her in an hotel; gave her a complete establishment of servants, a carriage, cashmeres, diamonds, dentelles, &c.
I, supposing he had done with me, prepared to return to the house; again, however, I heard him call "Jane!"
"Well now, Jane, you know, or at least I will tell you, that when a criminal is accused, he is always allowed to speak in his own defence.
I trust, Jane, you are in earnest when you say you will serve your heart to God: it is all I want.
"And the school, Miss Eyre?
Dread remorse when you are tempted to err, Miss Eyre; remorse is the poison of life."
"Am I hideous, Jane?" "Very, sir: you always were, you know."
"Farewell, Miss Eyre, for the present; is that all?"
Your name is Jane Eyre?"
"Did you expect a present, Miss Eyre?
"Why are you silent, Jane?
What a mercy you are shod with velvet, Jane!
then she would sit on the bed while I ate it, and when I had finished, she would tuck the clothes round me, and twice she kissed me, and said, "Good night, Miss Jane.
"That I never should, sir: you know " Impossible to proceed. "Jane, do you hear that nightingale singing in the wood?
"Little Jane's love would have been my best reward," he answered; "without it, my heart is broken.
Mademoiselle Eyre dans votre petit coffre?
"You are welcome to all my confidence that is worth having, Jane; but for God's sake, don't desire a useless burden!
"You never felt jealousy, did you, Miss Eyre?
"I will attire my Jane in satin and lace, and she shall have roses in her hair; and I will cover the head I love best with a priceless veil."
Do you doubt me, Jane?"
"Yes, sir, Jane Eyre."
After some minutes' silence, he continued, cheerily "Now, Janet, I'll explain to you all about it.
"Well, you have been crying, Miss Jane Eyre; can you tell me what about?
I knew him from a boy, you see: and for my part, I have often wished that Miss Eyre had been sunk in the sea before she came to Thornfield Hall."
"Did you like him, Jane?"
How much have you in the world, Jane?"
Nothing of the sort was visible; and when I asked a waiter if any one had been to inquire after a Miss Eyre, I was answered in the negative:
Do you never laugh, Miss Eyre?
"I think I may confess," he continued, "even although I should make you a little indignant, Jane and I have seen what a fire-spirit you can be when you are indignant.
"Fetch me now, Jane, a glass of wine from the dining-room: they will be at supper there; and tell me if Mason is with them, and what he is doing.
I only ask you to endure one more night under this roof, Jane; and then, farewell to its miseries and terrors for ever!
Jane, you don't like my narrative; you look almost sick
Jane, a little water."
"It was frantic folly to do so, Jane.
Say your prayers, Miss Eyre, when you are by yourself; for if you don't repent, something bad might be permitted to come down the chimney and fetch you away.
And yet where was the Jane Eyre of yesterday?
"They are, Miss Eyre, though they absolutely require a new statute: unheard-of combinations of circumstances demand unheard-of rules."
Doing nothing, expecting nothing; merging night in day; feeling but the sensation of cold when I let the fire go out, of hunger when I forgot to eat: and then a ceaseless sorrow, and, at times, a very delirium of desire to behold my Jane again.
Here, Jane!"
"It is Jane Eyre, sir."
"But, Jane, I summon you as my wife:
I saw nothing, but I heard a voice somewhere cry "Jane!
"Jane, I am not a gentle-tempered man you forget that: I am not long- enduring; I am not cool and dispassionate.
Of late, Jane only only of late I began to see and acknowledge the hand of God in my doom.
Well, Jane Eyre, and are you a good child?
"Well, Jane, being so, it was his resolution to keep the property together; he could not bear the idea of dividing his estate and leaving me a fair portion: all, he resolved, should go to my brother, Rowland.
Jane, come with me to India: come as my helpmeet and fellow-labourer.
"Is it Jane?
"Jane!" called a voice, and I hastened down.
I could not forget your conduct to me, Jane the fury with which you once turned on me; the tone in which you declared you abhorred me the worst of anybody in the world; the unchildlike look and voice with which you affirmed that the very thought of me made you sick, and asserted that I had treated you with miserable cruelty.
Arraigned at my own bar, Memory having given her evidence of the hopes, wishes, sentiments I had been cherishing since last night of the general state of mind in which I had indulged for nearly a fortnight past; Reason having come forward and told, in her own quiet way a plain, unvarnished tale, showing how I had rejected the real, and rabidly devoured the ideal; I pronounced judgment to this effect: That a greater fool than Jane Eyre had never breathed the breath of life; that a more fantastic idiot had never surfeited herself on sweet lies, and swallowed poison as if it were nectar.
"That was a strange question to be put by his darling Jane."
"Why, Miss Eyre, though Mr. Rochester's visits here are rare, they are always sudden and unexpected; and as I observed that it put him out to find everything swathed up, and to have a bustle of arrangement on his arrival, I thought it best to keep the rooms in readiness."
"Jane, I excuse you for the present: two months' grace
"But as you are rich, Jane, you have now, no doubt, friends who will look after you, and not suffer you to devote yourself to a blind lameter like me?"
I did not like to put my hand into a hireling's, but it is pleasant to feel it circled by Jane's little fingers.
"Jane, I don't like cavillers or questioners; besides, there is something truly forbidding in a child taking up her elders in that manner.
Jane Eyre," was all he said.
Go, then, Jane; go!"
"Here is Miss Eyre, sir," said Mrs. Fairfax, in her quiet way.
Jane, you will wonder at us and our mysteries," she said, "and think us hard-hearted beings not to be more moved at the death of so near a relation as an uncle; but we have never seen him or known him.
it is different; I feel your benefits no burden, Jane."
I wish, Jane, I were a trifle better adapted to match with her externally.
"Ghosts are usually pale, Jane."
lean on me, Jane."
"Yes; nearly five years since to Robert Leaven, the coachman; and I've a little girl besides Bobby there, that I've christened Jane."
I pass over the sort of slur conveyed in this suggestion on the character of my beloved; indeed, when you are far away, Janet, I'll try to forget it: I shall notice only its wisdom; which is such that I have made it my law of action.
"With what an extraordinary smile you uttered that word 'very well,' Jane!
Here, Jane, is an arbour; sit down.
Miss Eyre, are you ill?" said Bessie.
Jane, you look blooming, and smiling, and pretty," said he: "truly pretty this morning.
Bessie, when she heard this narrative, sighed and said, "Poor Miss Jane is to be pitied, too, Abbot."
"And how do people perform that ceremony of parting, Jane?
"You puzzle me, Jane:
"I am very happy, Jane; and when you hear that I am dead, you must be sure and not grieve: there is nothing to grieve about.
But, Jane, I see by your face you are not forming a very favourable opinion of me just now.
"Who have you been with, Jane?" "You shall not get it out of me to-night, sir; you must wait till to-morrow; to leave my tale half told, will, you know, be a sort of security that I shall appear at your breakfast table to finish it.
"I came on purpose to find you, Jane Eyre," said she; "I want you in my room; and as Helen Burns is with you, she may come too.
"Describe it, Jane."
Thank you, Jane.
"Do you know, Jane, I have your little pearl necklace at this moment fastened round my bronze scrag under my cravat?
"Miss Eyre, you are not so unsophisticated as Adele: she demands a 'cadeau,' clamorously, the moment she sees me: you beat about the bush."
It was only yesterday morning, however, that Bessie understood she was pronouncing your name; and at last she made out the words, 'Bring Jane fetch
"Jane, my little darling (so I will call you, for so you are), you don't know what you are talking about; you misjudge me again: it is not because she is mad
Are you Jane Eyre?"
Miss Eyre, draw your chair still a little farther forward: you are yet too far back; I cannot see you without disturbing my position in this comfortable chair, which I have no mind to do.
The young ladies put it off at first; but their mother grew so restless, and said, 'Jane, Jane,' so many times, that at last they consented.
Jane Eyre
"Why, Jane?
" All at once I heard a clear voice call, "Miss Jane!
"I feel so astonished," she began, "I hardly know what to say to you, Miss Eyre.
"Come, Miss Jane, don't cry," said Bessie as she finished.
Think like me, Jane trust like me.
"Well, you know Missis always said they were poor and quite despicable: and they may be poor; but I believe they are as much gentry as the Reeds are; for one day, nearly seven years ago, a Mr. Eyre came to Gateshead and wanted to see you; Missis said you were at school fifty miles off; he seemed so much disappointed, for he could not stay: he was going on a voyage to a foreign country, and the ship was to sail from London in a day or two.
"Jane, I've got a blow; I've got a blow, Jane!"
"Jane, you understand what I want of you?
Well, that is beautiful, Miss Jane!
"Come, Jane come hither."
Your habitual expression in those days, Jane, was a thoughtful look; not despondent, for you were not sickly; but not buoyant,
Miss Eyre, have you ever lived in a town?"
"Jane" (bending towards and embracing me), "
Well," said Mr. Rochester, gazing inquiringly into my eyes, "how is my Janet now?"
"Jane, I will be your brother my sisters will be your sisters without stipulating for this sacrifice of your just rights."
Miss Eyre has been an invaluable companion to me, and a kind and careful teacher to Adele."
Adele must go to school; and you, Miss Eyre, must get a new situation."
Madam, Will you have the goodness to send me the address of my niece, Jane Eyre, and to tell me how she is?