I suppose Mr. Heathcliff does not lodge at the top of the house, does he?'
I could not picture a father treating a dying child as tyrannically and wickedly as I afterwards learned Heathcliff had treated him, to compel this apparent eagerness: his efforts redoubling the more imminently his avaricious and unfeeling plans were threatened with defeat by death.
Well, if I cannot keep Heathcliff for my friend if Edgar will be mean and jealous, I'll try to break their hearts by breaking my own.
Mr. Heathcliff awoke me; he had just come in, and demanded, in his loving manner, what I was doing there?
Did she take due warning, then?' asked Heathcliff, attempting a sneer. '
Mr. Heathcliff and his man climbed the cellar steps with vexatious phlegm
It appeared to me, not Mr. Heathcliff, but a goblin; and, in my terror, I let the candle bend towards the wall, and it left me in darkness. '
This spectacle drove me back immediately; I took my hat, and, after a four-miles' walk, arrived at Heathcliff's garden-gate just in time to escape the first feathery flakes of a snow-shower.
Her appearance was altered, as I had told Heathcliff; but when she was calm, there seemed unearthly beauty in the change.
Heathcliff was dangerously sick; and while he lay at the worst he would have me constantly by his pillow: I suppose he felt I did a good deal for him, and he hadn't wit to guess that I was compelled to do it.
Will you say so, Heathcliff?' '
The day after, there was a justice-meeting at the next town; my master was obliged to attend; and Mr. Heathcliff, aware of his absence, called rather earlier than usual.
Do come to me, Heathcliff.'
Mr. Heathcliff was there laid on his back.
He shall be, in a day or two,' muttered Heathcliff. '
This was Heathcliff's first introduction to the family.
Mr. Heathcliff purposely avoids me:
It's surely no great cause of alarm that Heathcliff should take a moonlight saunter on the moors, or even lie too sulky to speak to us in the hay-loft.
Heathcliff had gone to loose the beast, and shift it to his own stall; he was passing behind it, when Hindley finished his speech by knocking him under its feet, and without stopping to examine whether his hopes were fulfilled, ran away as fast as he could.
You were very wicked, Mr. Heathcliff!'
After exchanging numerous marks of fondness with him, his cousin went to Mr. Heathcliff, who lingered by the door, dividing his attention between the objects inside and those that lay without: pretending, that is, to observe the latter, and really noting the former alone. '
She had cried out, when I carried up her dinner, that she couldn't bear any longer being in the cold; and I told her the master was going to Thrushcross Grange, and Earnshaw and I needn't hinder her from descending; so, as soon as she heard Heathcliff's horse trot off, she made her appearance, donned in black, and her yellow curls combed back behind her ears as plain as a Quaker
I seek no revenge on you,' replied Heathcliff, less vehemently. '
You may get your dinner with Joseph,' muttered Heathcliff, aside, 'and remain in the kitchen till he is gone.'
She made no stay at the stairs'-head, but mounted farther, to the garret where Heathcliff was confined, and called him.
I gave a few sentences of commendation to Heathcliff, and he, either for a headache or a pang of envy, began to cry: so I got up and left him.'
So deep and sensitive was his aversion, that he refrained from going anywhere where he was likely to see or hear of Heathcliff.
He ventured this remark without any intention to insult; but Heathcliff's violent nature was not prepared to endure the appearance of impertinence from one whom he seemed to hate, even then, as a rival.
Heathcliff fixed Catherine's arm under his: though she disputed the act at first evidently; and with rapid strides he hurried her into the alley, whose trees concealed them.
But what do you mean by a change, Mr. Heathcliff?'
Well, sir,' returned I, 'I hope you'll consider that Mrs. Heathcliff is accustomed to be looked after and waited on; and that she has been brought up like an only daughter, whom every one was ready to serve.
With Mr. Heathcliff, grim and saturnine, on the one hand, and Hareton, absolutely dumb, on the other, I made a somewhat cheerless meal, and bade adieu early.
Then he walked so feebly, and looked so pale, that I immediately exclaimed, 'Why, Master Heathcliff, you are not fit for enjoying a ramble this morning.
The second question I have great interest in; it is this Is Mr. Heathcliff a man?
There that will do for the present!' said Heathcliff. '
Zillah left, and Mr. Heathcliff wished me to come, soon after you went to London, and stay till you returned.
"Run, Heathcliff, run!"
A few words from her, evincing a dislike to Heathcliff, were enough to rouse in him all his old hatred of the boy.
I'd not care that Heathcliff gained his ends, and triumphed in robbing me of my last blessing!
There's Heathcliff and a woman yonder, under t' nab,' he blubbered, 'un'
Heathcliff's black eyes flashed; he seemed ready to tear Catherine in pieces, and I was just worked up to risk coming to the rescue, when of a sudden his fingers relaxed; he shifted his grasp from her head to her arm, and gazed intently in her face.
He was as quick and as intelligent a child as ever you were; and I'm hurt that he should be despised now, because that base Heathcliff has treated him so unjustly.' '
And I exclaimed 'Have you heard any good news, Mr. Heathcliff?
I'm lately married to Mr. Heathcliff, and he has brought me here
You are a boastful champion,' replied Heathcliff; 'but I don't like you well enough to hurt him: you shall get the full benefit of the torment, as long as it lasts.
Tell her what Heathcliff is: an unreclaimed creature, without refinement, without cultivation; an arid wilderness of furze and whinstone.
But, Heathcliff, if I dare you now, will you venture?
Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows; and Mrs. Heathcliff, kneeling on the hearth, reading a book by the aid of the blaze.
It's bonny behaviour, lurking amang t' fields, after twelve o' t' night, wi' that fahl, flaysome divil of a gipsy, Heathcliff!
It was named Catherine; but he never called it the name in full, as he had never called the first Catherine short: probably because Heathcliff had a habit of doing so.
It will certainly annoy Mr. Heathcliff, and he'll be mad at you both.'
Where's Heathcliff?'
thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. '
Heathcliff approached the fire, where my mistress and I stood silent.
If Hareton does not turn you out of the room, I'll strike him to hell,' thundered Heathcliff. '
They brought word that Catherine was ill: too ill to quit her room; and Heathcliff would not suffer them to see her.
The curate might set as many s as he pleased for Catherine to get by heart, and Joseph might thrash Heathcliff till his arm ached; they forgot everything the minute they were together again: at least the minute they had contrived some naughty plan of revenge; and many a time I've cried to myself to watch them growing more reckless daily, and I not daring to speak a syllable, for fear of losing the small power I still retained over the unfriended creatures.
You hate me as much as Mr. Heathcliff does, and more.'
Heathcliff stood at the open door; he was pale, and he trembled:
In general I'll allow that it would be, Ellen,' she continued; 'but what misery laid on Heathcliff could content me, unless I have a hand in it?
I informed Mr. Heathcliff, and he replied, "Well, let her be till after the funeral; and go up now and then to get her what is needful; and, as soon as she seems better, tell me."
interrupted Heathcliff, 'cut it short!
Tell Mr. Heathcliff,' he answered calmly, 'that his son shall come to Wuthering Heights to-morrow.
Mr. Heathcliff said he did not perceive that I was wanted; but I might stay and order the arrangements for the funeral, if I chose. '
Nelly, I am Heathcliff!
I did not call her unfeeling long; for I perceived she was in purgatory throughout the day, and wearying to find an opportunity of getting by herself, or paying a visit to Heathcliff, who had been locked up by the master: as I discovered, on endeavouring to introduce to him a private mess of victuals.
Mr. Heathcliff is not a fiend: he has an honourable soul, and a true one, or how could he remember her?' '
Leaving aside the degradation of an alliance with a nameless man, and the possible fact that his property, in default of heirs male, might pass into such a one's power, he had sense to comprehend Heathcliff's disposition: to know that, though his exterior was altered, his mind was unchangeable and unchanged.
It gave Joseph satisfaction, apparently, to watch him go the worst lengths: he allowed that the lad was ruined: that his soul was abandoned to perdition; but then he reflected that Heathcliff must answer for it.
When she did come, Heathcliff came with her, and she insisted that I should take him into the kitchen, as my fellow-servant had gone to a neighbour's, to be removed from the sound of our 'devil's psalmody,' as it pleased him to call it.
not that I stand in awe of Mr. Heathcliff.' '
I never saw Heathcliff last night,' answered Catherine, beginning to sob bitterly: '
How do you feel now, Master Heathcliff?'
They'll be covered if left in the fold all night: and put a plank before them,' said Heathcliff. '
Heathcliff, aware that his opponent was ignorant of the treatment received while insensible, called him deliriously intoxicated; and said he should not notice his atrocious conduct further, but advised him to get to bed.
muttered Heathcliff. '
I sought, and soon discovered, the three headstones on the slope next the moor: the middle one grey, and half buried in the heath; Edgar Linton's only harmonized by the turf and moss creeping up its foot; Heathcliff's still bare.
She's sadly put out by Mr. Heathcliff's behaviour:
I distinguished Mr. Heathcliff's step, restlessly measuring the floor, and he frequently broke the silence by a deep inspiration, resembling a groan.
In the evening, she said, the evening of my visit to the Heights, I knew, as well as if I saw him, that Mr. Heathcliff was about the place; and I shunned going out, because I still carried his letter in my pocket, and didn't want to be threatened or teased any more.
I did not mean to laugh at you,' she said; 'I could not hinder myself: Heathcliff, shake hands at least!
exclaimed Heathcliff; 'you shall not leave Wuthering Heights till to-morrow morning.
not Heathcliff's. '
The minute after a step traversed the hall; the open house was too tempting for Heathcliff to resist walking in
Heathcliff had the key in his hand that remained on the table.
Tell me why you are so queer, Mr. Heathcliff?
And I began, half dreaming, to weary myself with imagining some fit parentage for him; and, repeating my waking meditations, I tracked his existence over again, with grim variations; at last, picturing his death and funeral: of which, all I can remember is, being exceedingly vexed at having the task of dictating an inscription for his monument, and consulting the sexton about it; and, as he had no surname, and we could not tell his age, we were obliged to content ourselves with the single word, 'Heathcliff.'
Well,' replied I, 'I hope you'll be kind to the boy, Mr. Heathcliff, or you'll not keep him long; and he's all you have akin in the wide world, that you will ever know remember.'
Mr. Heathcliff said I might have my own way there too: only, he desired me to remember that the money for the whole affair came out of his pocket.
In the absence of clear proofs of his condition, I deemed it best to abstain from noticing his curious conduct; and, five minutes afterwards, the entrance of Heathcliff relieved me, in some measure, from my uncomfortable state. '
Heathcliff, dear!
The servants thought me gone to shake off the drowsiness of my protracted watch; in reality, my chief motive was seeing Mr. Heathcliff.
I slid back the panelled sides, got in with my light, pulled them together again, and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff, and every one else.
Heathcliff received no flogging, but he was told that the first word he spoke to Miss Catherine should ensure a dismissal; and Mrs. Earnshaw undertook to keep her sister-in-law in due restraint when she returned home; employing art, not force: with force she would have found it impossible.
Neither of us wished to mention Heathcliff's absence, as long as we could conceal it; so I replied,
Mr. Hindley had gone from home one afternoon, and Heathcliff presumed to give himself a holiday on the strength of it.
Mr. Heathcliff was nowhere visible; and Joseph, whom I followed to the stables, and requested to accompany me in, after staring and muttering to himself, screwed up his nose and replied 'Mim! mim!
Not Mr. Heathcliff, surely?'
The vehemence of my agitation brought on a copious bleeding at the nose, and still Heathcliff laughed, and still I scolded.
Heathcliff went up once, to show her Linton's will.
I hope it will be a lesson to you to make no more rash journeys on these hills,' cried Heathcliff's stern voice from the kitchen entrance. '
'I should guess it was her own,' said Heathcliff. '
On opening the little door, two hairy monsters flew at my throat, bearing me down, and extinguishing the light; while a mingled guffaw from Heathcliff and Hareton put the copestone on my rage and humiliation.
That Heathcliff you recollect him, sir who used to live at Mr. Earnshaw's.'
Mr. Heathcliff, perceiving us all confounded, rose, and expeditiously made the tea himself.
Mrs. Heathcliff,' I said, after sitting some time mute, 'you are not aware that I am an acquaintance of yours?
I would not talk so, Mr. Heathcliff,' I interposed. '
And she noticed the man Heathcliff
But never mind Linton at present: tell me, were you not with Heathcliff last night?
The master's bad ways and bad companions formed a pretty example for Catherine and Heathcliff.
whereas, if I marry Linton I can aid Heathcliff to rise, and place him out of my brother's power.' '
"There's this to do," thundered Heathcliff, "that your master's mad; and should he last another month, I'll have him to an asylum.
Not that I know of,' stammered Miss: 'but you should be in the field now, Heathcliff.
Joseph is here,' I answered, catching opportunely the roll of his cartwheels up the road; 'and Heathcliff will come in with him.
You'd rather hear nothing about it, I suppose, then, Mr. Linton?' said I. 'Heathcliff has your permission to come a-courting to Miss, and to drop in at every opportunity your absence offers, on purpose to poison the mistress against you?'
I want you to tell me my way, not to show it: or else to persuade Mr. Heathcliff to give me a guide.'
The next time Heathcliff came my young lady chanced to be feeding some pigeons in the court.
Heathcliff, you may come forward,' cried Mr. Hindley, enjoying his discomfiture, and gratified to see what a forbidding young blackguard he would be compelled to present himself. '
Linton spent his days and nights there, a sleepless guardian; and a circumstance concealed from all but me Heathcliff spent his nights, at least, outside, equally a stranger to repose.
Heathcliff kicked his to the same place.
The villagers affirmed Mr. Heathcliff was near, and a cruel hard landlord to his tenants; but the house, inside, had regained its ancient aspect of comfort under female management, and the scenes of riot common in Hindley's time were not now enacted within its walls.
I no longer felt inclined to call Heathcliff a capital fellow.
There was Heathcliff, by himself: it gave me a start to see him alone. '
He must get accustomed to him, and he may as well like him: considering how Heathcliff has reason to object to him
had he been aware that her attachment rose unsolicited, and was bestowed where it awakened no reciprocation of sentiment; for the minute he discovered its existence he laid the blame on Heathcliff's deliberate designing.
Have you found Heathcliff, you
With this intention I asked Mrs. Dean why Heathcliff let Thrushcross Grange, and preferred living in a situation and residence so much inferior. '
that was the case I had come down, and was standing by the table in the hall, lighting a bedroom candle for Mr. Edgar, when a maid stepped out of the kitchen and informed me that Mr. Heathcliff's servant Joseph was at the door, and wished to speak with the master. '
My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath: a source of little visible delight, but necessary.
What are you on the point of complaining about, Heathcliff?'
By that means, it could not fall to Mr. Heathcliff should Linton die.
then it is with Mrs. Heathcliff you must settle,' she observed; 'or rather with me.
They lifted their eyes together, to encounter Mr. Heathcliff: perhaps you have never remarked that their eyes are precisely similar, and they are those of Catherine Earnshaw.
The intruder was Mrs. Heathcliff.
And on their behalf he added that night a special prayer to the usual quarter-of-an-hour's supplication before meat, and would have tacked another to the end of the grace, had not his young mistress broken in upon him with a hurried command that he must run down the road, and, wherever Heathcliff had rambled, find and make him re-enter directly! '
And yet, cruel Heathcliff!
I could have told Heathcliff's history, all that you need hear, in half a dozen words.'
said Heathcliff, stretching out a hand and dragging him roughly between his knees, and then holding up his head by the chin. '
Its occupants had recommenced their angry discussion: Mrs. Linton, at least, was scolding with renewed vigour; Heathcliff had moved to the window, and hung his head, somewhat cowed by her violent rating apparently.
Heathcliff was hard to discover, at first.
He'll think you are tired of waiting on him, and run off for a little amusement,' answered Heathcliff. '
However, Mr. Heathcliff has claimed and kept them in his wife's right and his also: I suppose legally; at any rate, Catherine, destitute of cash and friends, cannot disturb his possession. '
At last, one night she came boldly into my chamber, and frightened me out of my wits, by saying, "Tell Mr. Heathcliff that his son is dying I'm sure he is, this time.
Heathcliff stood near the entrance, in his shirt and trousers; with a candle dripping over his fingers, and his face as white as the wall behind him.
He encouraged him to regard Hindley as a reprobate; and, night after night, he regularly grumbled out a long string of tales against Heathcliff and Catherine: always minding to flatter Earnshaw's weakness by heaping the heaviest blame on the latter.
I leant forward also, for the purpose of signing to Heathcliff, whose step I recognised, not to come further; and, at the instant when my eye quitted Hareton, he gave a sudden spring, delivered himself from the careless grasp that held him, and fell.
I think you belie her,' said Heathcliff, twisting his chair to face them. '
Heathcliff's face brightened a moment; then it was overcast afresh, and he sighed. '
Heathcliff's talk was outrageous, after you left us; but I could soon have diverted him from Isabella, and the rest meant nothing.
Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities: Heathcliff placed his fists, out of temptation, in his pockets; Mrs. Heathcliff curled her lip, and walked to a seat far off, where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay.
You are very stiff,' said Heathcliff, 'I know that: but you'll force me to pinch the baby and make it scream before it moves your charity.
Heathcliff bore his degradation pretty well at first, because Cathy taught him what she learnt, and worked or played with him in the fields.
The funeral was hurried over; Catherine, Mrs. Linton Heathcliff now, was suffered to stay at the Grange till her father's corpse had quitted it.
I should mention that Isabella sent to her brother, some six weeks from her departure, a short note, announcing her marriage with Heathcliff.
Heathcliff arrived underneath just at the critical moment; by a natural impulse he arrested his descent, and setting him on his feet, looked up to discover the author of the accident.
Mr. Heathcliff having overheard the conversation, as well as I, smiled when he saw him go; but immediately afterwards cast a look of singular aversion on the flippant pair, who remained chattering in the door-way: the boy finding animation enough while discussing Hareton's faults and deficiencies, and relating anecdotes of his goings on; and the girl relishing his pert and spiteful sayings, without considering the ill-nature they evinced.
I descended, and found Heathcliff waiting under the porch, evidently anticipating an invitation to enter.
No, that man is not my son,' answered Heathcliff, pushing me aside. '
On coming back a few days afterwards (for I did not consider my banishment perpetual), I found they had christened him 'Heathcliff': it was the name of a son who died in childhood, and it has served him ever since, both for Christian and surname.
I did not relish the notion of deliberately fastening myself in with Heathcliff. '
Is the fool drunk?' asked Mr. Heathcliff. '
You are aware, Mr. Heathcliff,' I said, 'that from the time you were thirteen years old you have lived a selfish, unchristian life; and probably hardly had a Bible in your hands during all that period.
had it not been for Mr. Heathcliff.
I wanted something to happen which might have the effect of freeing both Wuthering Heights and the Grange of Mr. Heathcliff quietly; leaving us as we had been prior to his advent.
Is your father attentive to you, Master Heathcliff?'
And I, in my secret heart (and conscience never reproached me), thought what a blessing it would be for him should Heathcliff put him out of misery; and what a blessing for me should he send Heathcliff to his right abode!
A man's life is of more consequence than one evening's neglect of the horses: somebody must go,' murmured Mrs. Heathcliff, more kindly than I expected. '
I was much vexed at her and the servant for their mutual revelations; having no doubt of Linton's approaching arrival, communicated by the former, being reported to Mr. Heathcliff; and feeling as confident that Catherine's first thought on her father's return would be to seek an explanation of the latter's assertion concerning her rude-bred kindred.
Set two tables here, Ellen: one for your master and Miss Isabella, being gentry; the other for Heathcliff and myself, being of the lower orders.
answered Heathcliff; "but his life is not worth a farthing, and I won't spend a farthing on him." '
If they were mine, they would be none the less that,' said Heathcliff; 'but though Isabella Linton may be silly, she is scarcely mad; and, in short, we'll dismiss the matter, as you advise.'
You'd better let the dog alone,' growled Mr. Heathcliff in unison, checking fiercer demonstrations with a punch of his foot. '
Heathcliff had never been heard of since the evening of the thunder-storm; and, one day, I had the misfortune, when she had provoked me exceedingly, to lay the blame of his disappearance on her:
He would not even have seen after their going to church on Sundays, only Joseph and the curate reprimanded his carelessness when they absented themselves; and that reminded him to order Heathcliff a flogging, and Catherine a fast from dinner or supper.
He might spare himself the trouble,' said Heathcliff: 'I could do as well without his approbation.
asked young Heathcliff, holding her frock as she rose reluctantly. '
Yes, Heathcliff,' he replied, glancing from me up to the windows, which reflected a score of glittering moons, but showed no lights from within. '
Yon' Heathcliff's run off wi' her!'
Master Heathcliff,' I resumed, 'have you forgotten all Catherine's kindness to you last winter, when you affirmed you loved her, and when she brought you books and sung you songs, and came many a time through wind and snow to see you?