Safie was always gay and happy; she and I improved rapidly in the knowledge of language, so that in two months I began to comprehend most of the words uttered by my protectors.
When they separated Felix kissed the hand of the stranger and said, Good night sweet Safie.
The old man appeared enraptured and said some words which Agatha endeavoured to explain to Safie, and by which he appeared to wish to express that she bestowed on him the greatest delight by her music.
The father of Safie had been the cause of their ruin.
I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere and wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its original inhabitants.
On the evening previous to her being brought to my home, my mother had said playfully, I have a pretty present for my Victortomorrow he shall have it.
My dear Victor, do not waste your time upon this; it is sad trash.
Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little gossip concerning the good people of Geneva.
You are forbidden to writeto hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear Victor, is necessary to calm our apprehensions.
My dear Victor, cried he, what, for Gods sake, is the matter?
In the midst of poverty and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first little white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground.
My thoughts now became more active, and I longed to discover the motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive to know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad.
When I returned, as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the snow and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix.
From this time Felix was more employed, and the heart-moving indications of impending famine disappeared.
It was not thus with Felix.
I thank you, Walton, he said, for your kind intentions towards so miserable a wretch; but when you speak of new ties and fresh affections, think you that any can replace those who are gone?
Walton, in continuation.
Your affectionate brother, R. Walton Letter 2
Your affectionate brother, Robert Walton Letter 3 To Mrs. Saville, England.
If I do, swear to me, Walton, that he shall not escape, that you will seek him and satisfy my vengeance in his death.
Justine Moritz entered our family?
Justine Moritz!
When I reflect, my dear cousin, said she, on the miserable death of Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as they before appeared to me.
Indeed, who would credit that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and fond of all the family, could suddenly become so capable of so frightful, so appalling a crime?
My aunt observed this, and when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother to allow her to live at our house.
Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and I recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelicashe looked so frank-hearted and happy.
Madame Moritz, her mother, was a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the third.
Justine, thus received in our family, learned the duties of a servant, a condition which, in our fortunate country, does not include the idea of ignorance and a sacrifice of the dignity of a human being.
This benefit was fully repaid; Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world: I do not mean that she made any professions I never heard one pass her lips, but you could see by her eyes that she almost adored her protectress.
I agree with you, replied the stranger; we are unfashioned creatures, but half made up,
I never saw a more interesting creature: his eyes have generally an expression of wildness, and even madness, but there are moments when, if anyone performs an act of kindness towards him or does him any the most trifling service, his whole countenance is lighted up, as it were, with a beam of benevolence and sweetness that I never saw equalled.
How can I see so noble a creature destroyed by misery without feeling the most poignant grief?
He must have been a noble creature in his better days, being even now in wreck so attractive and amiable.
I once had a friend, the most noble of human creatures, and am entitled, therefore, to judge respecting friendship.
I imagined that the monster seized me; I struggled furiously and fell down in a fit.
I dreaded to behold this monster, but I feared still more that Henry should see him.
I started from my sleep with horror; a cold dew covered my forehead, my teeth chattered, and every limb became convulsed; when, by the dim and yellow light of the moon, as it forced its way through the window shutters, I beheld the wretchthe miserable monster whom I had created.
Ever since I was condemned, my confessor has besieged me; he threatened and menaced, until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I was.
I had been the author of unalterable evils, and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had created should perpetrate some new wickedness.
Henry Clerval was the son of a merchant of Geneva.
The examination, the presence of the magistrate and witnesses, passed like a dream from my memory when I saw the lifeless form of Henry Clerval stretched before me.
As it drew nearer I observed that it was the Swiss diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and on the door being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me, instantly sprung out.
Clerval spent the last evening with us.
And Clervalcould aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval?
Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval; his presence brought back to my thoughts my father, Elizabeth, and all those scenes of home
It was said, and we retired under the pretence of seeking repose, each fancying that the other was deceived; but when at mornings dawn I descended to the carriage which was to convey me away, they were all theremy father again to bless me, Clerval to press my hand once more, my Elizabeth to renew her entreaties that I would write often and to bestow the last feminine attentions on her playmate and friend.
I loved my brothers, Elizabeth, and Clerval; these were old familiar faces, but I believed myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers.
The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey and Agatha were thrown into prison.
My voice, although harsh, had nothing terrible in it; I thought, therefore, that if in the absence of his children I could gain the good will and mediation of the old De Lacey, I might by his means be tolerated by my younger protectors.
He quickly arranged with the Turk that if the latter should find a favourable opportunity for escape before Felix could return to Italy, Safie should remain as a boarder at a convent at Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian, he hastened to Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the law, hoping to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding.
Enter, said De Lacey, and I will try in what manner I can to relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are from home, and as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure food for you.
The name of the old man was De Lacey.